concepts/Testing/Testing.md, before:

# Testing your code

## Preparation

For our test suite, we use [mocha](http://mochajs.org/).
Before you start building your test cases, you should first organise your `./test` directory structure, for example in the following way:
```batch
./myApp
├── api
├── assets
├── ...
├── test
│  ├── unit
│  │  ├── controllers
│  │  │  └── UsersController.test.js
│  │  ├── models
│  │  │  └── Users.test.js
│  │  └── ...
│  ├── fixtures
│  ├── ...
│  ├── bootstrap.test.js
│  └── mocha.opts
└── views

```

### bootstrap.test.js

This file is useful when you want to execute some code before and after running your tests (e.g. lifting and lowering your sails application):

```javascript
var Sails = require('sails'),
  sails;

before(function(done) {
  Sails.lift({
    // configuration for testing purposes
  }, function(err, server) {
    sails = server;
    if (err) return done(err);
    // here you can load fixtures, etc.
    done(err, sails);
  });
});

after(function(done) {
  // here you can clear fixtures, etc.
  sails.lower(done);
});
```

### mocha.opts

This file should contain mocha configuration as described here: [mocha.opts](http://mochajs.org/#mocha.opts)

## Writing tests

Once you have prepared your directory you can start writing your unit tests.

./test/unit/models/Users.test.js
```js
describe.only('UsersModel', function() {

  describe('#find()', function() {
    it('should check find function', function (done) {
      Users.find()
        .then(function(results) {
          // some tests
          done();
        })
        .catch(done);
    });
  });

});
```

#### Testing controllers

To test controller responses you can use [Supertest](https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest) library which provides several useful methods for testing HTTP requests.

./test/unit/controllers/UsersController.test.js
```js
var request = require('supertest');

describe('UsersController', function() {

  describe('#login()', function() {
    it('should redirect to /mypage', function (done) {
      request(sails.hooks.http.app)
        .post('/users/login')
        .send({ name: 'test', password: 'test' })
        .expect(302)
        .expect('location','/mypage', done);
    });
  });

});
```

## Code coverage

Another popular method for testing your code is [Code Coverage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_coverage).

You can use [mocha](http://mochajs.org/) and [istanbul](https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul) to check your code and prepare various coverage reports (HTML, Cobertura) which can be used in continuous integration services such as [Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org).

To test your code and prepare a simple HTML report run the following commands:
```bash
istanbul cover -x "**/config/**" _mocha -- --timeout 5000
istanbul report html
```

<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="Testing765149">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Testing">

Commit message:

Added info on how to run mocha test
Also added a a brief explanation on how to run your test using coffescript. This info can be found elsewhere but its better to have it here for those who don't know how to do it.

concepts/Testing/Testing.md, after:

# Testing your code

## Preparation

For our test suite, we use [mocha](http://mochajs.org/).
Before you start building your test cases, you should first organise your `./test` directory structure, for example in the following way:
```batch
./myApp
├── api
├── assets
├── ...
├── test
│  ├── unit
│  │  ├── controllers
│  │  │  └── UsersController.test.js
│  │  ├── models
│  │  │  └── Users.test.js
│  │  └── ...
│  ├── fixtures
│  ├── ...
│  ├── bootstrap.test.js
│  └── mocha.opts
└── views

```

### bootstrap.test.js

This file is useful when you want to execute some code before and after running your tests(e.g. lifting and lowering your sails application). Since your models are converted to waterline collections on lift, it is necessary to lift your sailsApp before trying to test them (This applies similarly to controllers and other parts of your app, so be sure to call this file first).

```javascript
var Sails = require('sails'),
  sails;

before(function(done) {
  Sails.lift({
    // configuration for testing purposes
  }, function(err, server) {
    sails = server;
    if (err) return done(err);
    // here you can load fixtures, etc.
    done(err, sails);
  });
});

after(function(done) {
  // here you can clear fixtures, etc.
  sails.lower(done);
});
```

### mocha.opts

This file should contain mocha configuration as described here: [mocha.opts](http://mochajs.org/#mocha.opts)

Note: If you are writing your test in coffeescript be sure to add this lines to your mocha.opts
```
--require coffee-script/register
--compilers coffee:coffee-script/register
```

## Writing tests

Once you have prepared your directory you can start writing your unit tests.

./test/unit/models/Users.test.js
```js
describe.only('UsersModel', function() {

  describe('#find()', function() {
    it('should check find function', function (done) {
      Users.find()
        .then(function(results) {
          // some tests
          done();
        })
        .catch(done);
    });
  });

});
```

#### Testing controllers

To test controller responses you can use [Supertest](https://github.com/visionmedia/supertest) library which provides several useful methods for testing HTTP requests.

./test/unit/controllers/UsersController.test.js
```js
var request = require('supertest');

describe('UsersController', function() {

  describe('#login()', function() {
    it('should redirect to /mypage', function (done) {
      request(sails.hooks.http.app)
        .post('/users/login')
        .send({ name: 'test', password: 'test' })
        .expect(302)
        .expect('location','/mypage', done);
    });
  });

});
```
## Running tests

In order to run your test using mocha, you'll have to use `mocha` in the command line and then pass as arguments the test your want to run, be sure to call bootstrap.test.js before the rest of your test like this `mocha test/bootstrap.test.js test/unit/**/*.test.js`

#### Using `npm test` to run your test

To avoid typing the mocha command like stated before (specially when calling bootstrap.test.js) and using `npm test` instead, you'll need to modify your package.json, on the scripts obj, add a `test` key and type this as its value `./node_modules/.bin/mocha test/bootstrap.test.js test/unit/*.test.js` like this:

```js
 // Some config....
 scripts": {
    "start": "node app.js",
    "debug": "node debug app.js",
    "test": "./node_modules/.bin/mocha test/bootstrap.test.js test/unit/*.test.js"
  },
 // More config
```
The `*` is a wildcard used to match any file inside the `unit` forlder that ends in `.test.js` so you can perfectly modify it to search for `*.spec.js` if it suits you. In the same way you can use wildcards for your folders, so instead of specifying a folder like `unit` you can use something like `test/**/*.test.js` to run any test inside any folder of your test folder.

## Code coverage

Another popular method for testing your code is [Code Coverage](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Code_coverage).

You can use [mocha](http://mochajs.org/) and [istanbul](https://github.com/gotwarlost/istanbul) to check your code and prepare various coverage reports (HTML, Cobertura) which can be used in continuous integration services such as [Jenkins](http://jenkins-ci.org).

To test your code and prepare a simple HTML report run the following commands:
```bash
istanbul cover -x "**/config/**" _mocha -- --timeout 5000
istanbul report html
```

<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="Testing765149">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Testing">
