reference/sails.config/sails.config.log.md, before:

# sails.config.log


Configuration for the instance of the [Sails logger](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/logging) (`sails.log`) used in your Sails app. The options are conventionally specified in the [config/log.js](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/anatomy/myApp/config/log.js.html) configuration file.


### Properties


| Property  | Type       | Default   | Details |
|-----------|:----------:|-----------|---------|
| `level`   | ((string)) | `'info'`  | Set the level of detail to be shown in your app's log |

<!--
### Notes

> +. ...

-->

<!--
### What is this?
The logger file configures the log level for your app, as well as the transport.

### Description

The logger file configures the log level for your app, as well as the transport.

*(Underneath the covers, Sails uses Winston for logging, which allows for some pretty neat custom transports/adapters for log messages)*

#### There are 5 different levels to the log:

+ **'error'** : Display calls to `.error()`
+ **'warn'**    : Display calls from `.error()` to `.warn()`
+ **'debug'** : Display calls from `.error()`, `.warn()` to `.debug()`
+ **'info'**  : Display calls from `.error()`, `.warn()`, `.debug()` to `.info()`
+ **'verbose'**: Display calls from `.error()`, `.warn()`, `.debug()`, `.info()` to `.verbose()`


By default, the level is set to `info`.




-->



<docmeta name="displayName" value="sails.config.log">

Commit message:

Added additional parameters and examples to cover using a custom logger.

reference/sails.config/sails.config.log.md, after:

# sails.config.log


Configuration for the instance of the [Sails logger](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/logging) (`sails.log`) used in your Sails app. The options are conventionally specified in the [config/log.js](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/anatomy/myApp/config/log.js.html) configuration file.


### Properties

| Property  | Type        | Default     | Details                                                                                                                  |
|-----------|-------------|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `level`   | ((string))  | `'info'`    | Set the level of detail to be shown in your app's log                                                                    |
| `inspect` | ((boolean)) | `true`      | Set to false to disable captain's log's handling of logging, logs will instead be passed to the configured custom logger |
| `custom`  | ((object))  | `undefined` | Set to the instance of a custom logger (such as [winston](https://github.com/winstonjs/winston)) logs will be passed through to the custom logger

### Using a Custom Logger

You can use a custom logger by disabling captain's log and providing a logger with similar methods that logs can be passed to. An example using [winston](https://github.com/winstonjs/winston) defining both a console transport and file transport is below.

```javascript
var winston = require('winston');
var customLogger = new winston.Logger();

// A console transport logging debug and above.
customLogger.add(winston.transports.Console, {
  level: 'debug',
  colorize: true
});

// A file based transport logging only errors formatted as json.
customLogger.add(winston.transports.File, {
  level: 'error',
  filename: 'filename.log',
  json: true
});

module.exports.log = {
  // Pass in our custom logger, and pass all log levels through.
  custom: customLogger,
  level: 'silly',

  // Disable captain's log so it doesn't prefix or stringify our meta data.
  inspect: false
};
```



<docmeta name="displayName" value="sails.config.log">
