config.routes.md, before:

# routes.js
Sails uses a number of different strategies to route requests. Here they are top-to-bottom, in order of precedence:

##1. Static Assets
Flat files in your `assets` directory- (these are sometimes referred to as &lsquo;public&rsquo;)

If you have an image file at `/assets/images/foo.jpg`, it will be made available automatically via the route:  `/images/foo.jpg`


##2. Static Routes
This object routes static URLs to handler functions-- In most cases, these functions are actions inside of your controllers. For convenience, you can also connect routes directly to views or external URLs.

By default, your root route (aka home page) points to a view located at `views/home/index.ejs`. (This would also work if you had a file at: `/views/home.ejs`)


But what if you want your home page to display a signup form located at `views/user/signup.ejs`?
```javascript
'/' : {
	view : 'user/signup'
}
```

Let&rsquo;s say you&rsquo;re building an email client, like Gmail. You might want your home route to serve an interface using custom logic. In this scenario, you have a custom controller `MessageController` with an `inbox` action: `'/' : 'message.inbox'`

Alternatively, you can use the more verbose syntax:
```javascript
'/': {
	controller	: 'message',
	action		: 'inbox'
}
```

If you decided to call your action `index` instead of `inbox`, since the `index` action is the default, you can shortcut even further to: `'/': 'MessageController'`



Up until now, we haven&rsquo;t specified a specific HTTP method/verb. The routes above will apply to ALL verbs! If you want to set up a route only for one in particular (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.), just specify the verb before the path. 

For example, if you have a `UserController` with a `signup` action, and somewhere else, you&rsquo;re serving a signup form that looks like:
```html
<form action="/signup">
	<input name="username" type="text"/>
	<input name="password" type="password"/>
</form>
```
You could define the following route: `'post /signup'	: 'user.signup'`.

Finally, here&rsquo;s an example of how you would route all GET requests to the `/google` route to Google&rsquo;s website: `'get /google'	: 'http://google.com'`

##3. Action Blueprints
These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.controllers.routes.actions = false`
 

All of your controllers' actions are automatically bound to a route.  For example: If you have a controller, `FooController`:
+ its action `bar` is accessible at `/foo/bar`
+ its action `index` is accessible at `/foo/index`, and also `/foo`


##4. View Blueprints

These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.views.routes = false`

If you have a view file at `/views/foo/bar.ejs`, it will be rendered and served automatically via the route:  `/foo/bar`


##5. Shortcut CRUD blueprints
These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.controllers.routes.shortcuts = false`

If you have a model, `Foo`, and a controller, `FooController`, you can access CRUD operations for that model at:
+ `/foo/find/:id?`	->	search lampshades using specified criteria or with id=:id
+ `/foo/create`	->	create a lampshade using specified values		
+ `/foo/update/:id`	->	update the lampshade with id=:id		
+ `/foo/destroy/:id`	->	delete lampshade with id=:id

##6. REST blueprints
These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.controllers.routes.rest = false`
 
If you have a model, `Foo`, and a controller, `FooController`, you can access CRUD operations for that model at:
+ `get /foo/:id?`	->	search lampshades using specified criteria or with id=:id
+ `post /foo`		-> create a lampshade using specified values
+ `put /foo/:id`	->	update the lampshade with id=:id
+ `delete /foo/:id`	->	delete lampshade with id=:id

##7. Default 404 (not found) handler
Finally, if nothing else matched, the default 404 handler is triggered. See `config/404.js` to adjust your app&rsquo;s 404 logic.

Commit message:

Added CORS and uploadLimit route config docs

config.routes.md, after:

# routes.js
Sails uses a number of different strategies to route requests. Here they are top-to-bottom, in order of precedence:

##1. Static Assets
Flat files in your `assets` directory- (these are sometimes referred to as &lsquo;public&rsquo;)

If you have an image file at `/assets/images/foo.jpg`, it will be made available automatically via the route:  `/images/foo.jpg`


##2. Static Routes
This object routes static URLs to handler functions-- In most cases, these functions are actions inside of your controllers. For convenience, you can also connect routes directly to views or external URLs.

By default, your root route (aka home page) points to a view located at `views/home/index.ejs`. (This would also work if you had a file at: `/views/home.ejs`)


But what if you want your home page to display a signup form located at `views/user/signup.ejs`?
```javascript
'/' : {
	view : 'user/signup'
}
```

Let&rsquo;s say you&rsquo;re building an email client, like Gmail. You might want your home route to serve an interface using custom logic. In this scenario, you have a custom controller `MessageController` with an `inbox` action: `'/' : 'message.inbox'`

Alternatively, you can use the more verbose syntax:
```javascript
'/': {
	controller	: 'message',
	action		: 'inbox'
}
```

If you decided to call your action `index` instead of `inbox`, since the `index` action is the default, you can shortcut even further to: `'/': 'MessageController'`



Up until now, we haven&rsquo;t specified a specific HTTP method/verb. The routes above will apply to ALL verbs! If you want to set up a route only for one in particular (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, etc.), just specify the verb before the path. 

For example, if you have a `UserController` with a `signup` action, and somewhere else, you&rsquo;re serving a signup form that looks like:
```html
<form action="/signup">
	<input name="username" type="text"/>
	<input name="password" type="password"/>
</form>
```
You could define the following route: `'post /signup'	: 'user.signup'`.

Finally, here&rsquo;s an example of how you would route all GET requests to the `/google` route to Google&rsquo;s website: `'get /google'	: 'http://google.com'`

## 3. Advanced Route config
#### Upload Limit
By default routes are limited to `10mb` uploads, to change the upload limit set the `uploadLimit` config on your route:
```javascript
'/': {
	...,
	uploadLimit: '100mb'
}
```
The limit setting uses `express.limit()` internally, and supports any valid [connect.limit()](http://www.senchalabs.org/connect/limit.html) values 
#### CORS (Cross origin resource sharing)
Additionally, you can also enable [CORS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) on a route:
```javascript
'/': {
	...,
	cors: true
	// cors: 'http://sailsjs.org, http://sailsjs.com'
}
```
If CORS is enabled on a route, the _csrf token is set to `null` to prevent accidental _csrf token exposure.
##4. Action Blueprints
These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.controllers.routes.actions = false`
 

All of your controllers' actions are automatically bound to a route.  For example: If you have a controller, `FooController`:
+ its action `bar` is accessible at `/foo/bar`
+ its action `index` is accessible at `/foo/index`, and also `/foo`


##5. View Blueprints

These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.views.routes = false`

If you have a view file at `/views/foo/bar.ejs`, it will be rendered and served automatically via the route:  `/foo/bar`


##6. Shortcut CRUD blueprints
These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.controllers.routes.shortcuts = false`

If you have a model, `Foo`, and a controller, `FooController`, you can access CRUD operations for that model at:
+ `/foo/find/:id?`	->	search lampshades using specified criteria or with id=:id
+ `/foo/create`	->	create a lampshade using specified values		
+ `/foo/update/:id`	->	update the lampshade with id=:id		
+ `/foo/destroy/:id`	->	delete lampshade with id=:id

##7. REST blueprints
These routes can be disabled in `config/controllers.js` by setting: `module.exports.controllers.routes.rest = false`
 
If you have a model, `Foo`, and a controller, `FooController`, you can access CRUD operations for that model at:
+ `get /foo/:id?`	->	search lampshades using specified criteria or with id=:id
+ `post /foo`		-> create a lampshade using specified values
+ `put /foo/:id`	->	update the lampshade with id=:id
+ `delete /foo/:id`	->	delete lampshade with id=:id

##8. Default 404 (not found) handler
Finally, if nothing else matched, the default 404 handler is triggered. See `config/404.js` to adjust your app&rsquo;s 404 logic.
