config.adapters.md, before:

## Global adapter config
The `adapters` configuration object lets you create different global "saved settings" that you can mix and match in your models.  The `default` option indicates which "saved setting" should be used if a model doesn't have an adapter specified.

Keep in mind that options you define directly in your model definitions will override these settings.


If you leave the adapter config unspecified in a model definition, 'default' will be used.: `'default': 'disk',`

In-memory adapter for DEVELOPMENT ONLY:
```javascript
  memory: {
    module: 'sails-memory'
  },
```

Persistent adapter for DEVELOPMENT ONLY (data IS preserved when the server shuts down):
```javascript
disk: {
    module: 'sails-disk'
  },
```
MySQL is the world's most popular relational database. Learn more: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MySQL
```javascript
 mysql: {
    module: 'sails-mysql',
    host: 'YOUR_MYSQL_SERVER_HOSTNAME_OR_IP_ADDRESS',
    user: 'YOUR_MYSQL_USER',
    password: 'YOUR_MYSQL_PASSWORD',
    database: 'YOUR_MYSQL_DB'
  }
};
```

####You can find a list of supported adapters <a href="https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-wiki/blob/0.9/Database-Support.md">here</a>.

For more information on adapter configuration, check out: http://sailsjs.org/#documentation

Commit message:

Cleaned up example
Took out link to more info on Sailsjs.org, since no more info is currently available there.

config.adapters.md, after:

## Global adapter config
The `adapters` configuration object lets you create different global &ldquo;saved settings&rdquo; that you can mix and match in your models.  The `default` option indicates which saved setting should be used if a model doesn't have an adapter specified.

Keep in mind that options you define directly in your model definitions will override these settings.

For example, to use the in-memory adapter (for DEVELOPMENT ONLY), first install the module with `npm install sails-memory`, then define it in `adapters.js`:
```javascript
  memory: {
    module: 'sails-memory'
  },
```
then in your model definition, add `adapter: 'memory'`:

```javascript
  module.exports = {
     adapter: 'memory',
     attributes: {
       // some attributes
     }
  }
```

Sails adapters have been written for a variety of popular databases such as MySQL, Postgres and Mongo.  You can find a list of supported adapters <a href="https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-wiki/blob/0.9/Database-Support.md">here</a>.
