Getting-Started.md, before:

# Installation

To install the latest stable release:
```
npm install sails
```

Or to install globally with the command line tool: ```sudo npm install -g sails```


# Creating a New Sails Project

The global install of Sails comes bundled with a command-line tool which allows you to generate a new app as shown below:

```
# Create the app
sails foo
cd foo

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Fire up the server
node app.js			
```


# Hello, Sails!
To get Sails to say "Hello!", you need only to create a controller

```
sails generate controller hello index
```

Then in your hello controller inside the index action you will send back a string

```javascript

var HelloController = {

	index: function(req, res) {
		res.send('Hello!');
	}
}

exports = HelloController;
```

After you have added that, you will want to remove the default index.html page that shows at the
start of your application

```
rm public/index.html
```

We now want the application to display this hello response when a request for the root "/" route
comes in. Go into the config/routes.js file. One unique thing about Sails is that by default, you do
not have to define incoming routes to controller actions. You can manually define these mappings,
and here we will do so. Change the file to look like this.

```javascript

exports = {
	'/': {
		controller: 'home',
		action: 'index'
	}
}
```

Finally, start the server
```
sails app.js
```

Now when you visit <a href="http://localhost:1337/">http://localhost:1337/</a> the index action of
the home controller, which will respond with 'Hello!'.


# Creating a Model
Creating a model is just as easy too.

```
sails generate model User
```

# Automatic JSON API: Better Than Saffolding

HTML scaffolds just don't make sense for modern web apps.  Instead, Sails automatically builds a RESTful JSON API for your models.  Best of all, it supports HTTP _and_ WebSockets!

# Security
_TODO_

## Using https
_TODO_

Commit message:

simple explination of api scaffolding

Getting-Started.md, after:

# Installation

To install the latest stable release:
```
npm install sails
```

Or to install globally with the command line tool: ```sudo npm install -g sails```


# Creating a New Sails Project

The global install of Sails comes bundled with a command-line tool which allows you to generate a new app as shown below:

```
# Create the app
sails foo
cd foo

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Fire up the server
node app.js			
```


# Hello, Sails!
To get Sails to say "Hello!", you need only to create a controller

```
sails generate controller hello index
```

Then in your hello controller inside the index action you will send back a string

```javascript

var HelloController = {

	index: function(req, res) {
		res.send('Hello!');
	}
}

exports = HelloController;
```

After you have added that, you will want to remove the default index.html page that shows at the
start of your application

```
rm public/index.html
```

We now want the application to display this hello response when a request for the root "/" route
comes in. Go into the config/routes.js file. One unique thing about Sails is that by default, you do
not have to define incoming routes to controller actions. You can manually define these mappings,
and here we will do so. Change the file to look like this.

```javascript

exports = {
	'/': {
		controller: 'home',
		action: 'index'
	}
}
```

Finally, start the server
```
sails app.js
```

Now when you visit <a href="http://localhost:1337/">http://localhost:1337/</a> the index action of
the home controller, which will respond with 'Hello!'.


# Creating a Model
Creating a model is very easy with the command line tool. You can even define attributes and their
type by adding arguments at the end of the command. To generate a User model with a name, age, and
email enter the following.

```
sails generate model User name:string age:int email:string
```

# Automatic JSON API: Better Than Saffolding

Sails API scaffolding is nothing like Rails scaffolding. HTML scaffolds just don't make sense for 
modern web apps! Instead, Sails automatically builds a RESTful JSON API for your models. Best of
all, it supports HTTP _and_ WebSockets! By default for every controller you create, you get the
basic CRUD operations created automatically.

# Security
_TODO_

## Using https
_TODO_
