concepts/ORM/Querylanguage.md, before:

# Waterline Query Language

The Waterline Query language is an object-based criteria used to retrieve the records from any of the supported database adapters. This means that you can use the same query on MySQL as you do on Redis or MongoDb. This allows you to change your database without changing your code.

### Query Language Basics

The criteria objects are formed using one of four types of object keys. These are the top level
keys used in a query object. It is loosely based on the criteria used in MongoDB with a few slight variations.

Queries can be built using either a `where` key to specify attributes, which will allow you to also use query options such as `limit` and `skip` or if `where` is excluded the entire object will be treated as a `where` criteria.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, skip: 20, limit: 10, sort: 'name DESC' });

// OR

Model.find({ name: 'foo' })
```

#### Key Pairs

A key pair can be used to search records for values matching exactly what is specified. This is the base of a criteria object where the key represents an attribute on a model and the value is a strict equality check of the records for matching values.

```javascript
Model.find({ name: 'walter' })
```

They can be used together to search multiple attributes.

```javascript
Model.find({ name: 'walter', state: 'new mexico' })
```

#### Modified Pairs

Modified pairs also have model attributes for keys but they also use any of the supported criteria modifiers to perform queries where a strict equality check wouldn't work.

```javascript
Model.find({
  name : {
    'contains' : 'alt'
  }
})
```

#### In Pairs

IN queries work similarly to mysql 'in queries'. Each element in the array is treated as 'or'.

```javascript
Model.find({
  name : ['Walter', 'Skyler']
});
```

#### Not-In Pairs

Not-In queries work similar to `in` queries, except for the nested object criteria.

```javascript
Model.find({
  name: { '!' : ['Walter', 'Skyler'] }
});
```

#### Or Pairs

Performing `OR` queries is done by using an array of query pairs. Results will be returned that
match any of the criteria objects inside the array.

```javascript
Model.find({
  or : [
    { name: 'walter' },
    { occupation: 'teacher' }
  ]
})
```

### Criteria Modifiers

The following modifiers are available to use when building queries.

* `'<'` / `'lessThan'`
* `'<='` / `'lessThanOrEqual'`
* `'>'` / `'greaterThan'`
* `'>='` / `'greaterThanOrEqual'`
* `'!'` / `'not'`
* `'like'`
* `'contains'`
* `'startsWith'`
* `'endsWith'`


#### '<' / 'lessThan'

Searches for records where the value is less than the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '<': 30 }})
```

#### '<=' / 'lessThanOrEqual'

Searches for records where the value is less or equal to the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '<=': 21 }})
```

#### '>' / 'greaterThan'

Searches for records where the value is more than the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '>': 18 }})
```

#### '>=' / 'greaterThanOrEqual'

Searches for records where the value is more or equal to the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '>=': 21 }})
```

#### '!' / 'not'

Searches for records where the value is not equal to the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ name: { '!': 'foo' }})
```

#### 'like'

Searches for records using pattern matching with the `%` sign.

```javascript
Model.find({ food: { 'like': '%beans' }})
```

#### 'contains'

A shorthand for pattern matching both sides of a string. Will return records where the value
contains the string anywhere inside of it.

```javascript
Model.find({ class: { 'contains': 'history' }})

// The same as

Model.find({ class: { 'like': '%history%' }})
```

#### 'startsWith'

A shorthand for pattern matching the right side of a string. Will return records where the value
starts with the supplied string value.

```javascript
Model.find({ class: { 'startsWith': 'american' }})

// The same as

Model.find({ class: { 'like': 'american%' }})
```

#### 'endsWith'

A shorthand for pattern matching the left side of a string. Will return records where the value
ends with the supplied string value.

```javascript
Model.find({ class: { 'endsWith': 'can' }})

// The same as

Model.find({ class: { 'like': '%can' }})
```

#### 'Date Ranges'

You can do date range queries using the comparison operators.

```javascript
Model.find({ date: { '>': new Date('2/4/2014'), '<': new Date('2/7/2014') } })
```

### Query Options

Query options allow you refine the results that are returned from a query. The current options
available are:

* `limit`
* `skip`
* `sort`

#### Limit

Limits the number of results returned from a query.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, limit: 20 })
```

#### Skip

Returns all the results excluding the number of items to skip.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, skip: 10 });
```

##### Pagination

`skip` and `limit` can be used together to build up a pagination system.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, limit: 10, skip: 10 });
```

`paginate` is a  Waterline helper method which can accomplish the same as `skip` and `limit`.

``` javascript                                                                  
Model.find().paginate({page: 2, limit: 10});                                     
```

> **Waterline**
>
> You can find out more about the Waterline API below:
> * [Sails.js Documentation](http://sailsjs.org/#!/documentation/reference/waterline/queries)
> * [Waterline README](https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline/blob/master/README.md)
> * [Waterline Documentation](https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline-docs)
> * [Waterline Github Repository](https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline)


#### Sort

Results can be sorted by attribute name. Simply specify an attribute name for natural (ascending)
sort, or specify an `asc` or `desc` flag for ascending or descending orders respectively.

```javascript
// Sort by name in ascending order
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: 'name' });

// Sort by name in descending order
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: 'name DESC' });

// Sort by name in ascending order
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: 'name ASC' });

// Sort by binary notation
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: { 'name': 1 }});

// Sort by multiple attributes
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: { name:  1, age: 0 });
```

> **Case-sensitivity**
>
> All queries inside of Waterline are **case-insensitive**. This allows for easier querying but makes indexing strings tough. This is something to be aware of if you are indexing and searching on string fields.
>
> Currently, the best way to execute **case-sensitive** queries is using the [`.native()`](http://sailsjs.org/#!/documentation/reference/waterline/models/native.html) or [`.query()`](http://sailsjs.org/#!/documentation/reference/waterline/models/query.html) method.


<docmeta name="displayName" value="Query Language">

Commit message:

add notes to like, contains, starts with, endswith that they are case insensitive

concepts/ORM/Querylanguage.md, after:

# Waterline Query Language

The Waterline Query language is an object-based criteria used to retrieve the records from any of the supported database adapters. This means that you can use the same query on MySQL as you do on Redis or MongoDb. This allows you to change your database without changing your code.

### Query Language Basics

The criteria objects are formed using one of four types of object keys. These are the top level
keys used in a query object. It is loosely based on the criteria used in MongoDB with a few slight variations.

Queries can be built using either a `where` key to specify attributes, which will allow you to also use query options such as `limit` and `skip` or if `where` is excluded the entire object will be treated as a `where` criteria.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, skip: 20, limit: 10, sort: 'name DESC' });

// OR

Model.find({ name: 'foo' })
```

#### Key Pairs

A key pair can be used to search records for values matching exactly what is specified. This is the base of a criteria object where the key represents an attribute on a model and the value is a strict equality check of the records for matching values.

```javascript
Model.find({ name: 'walter' })
```

They can be used together to search multiple attributes.

```javascript
Model.find({ name: 'walter', state: 'new mexico' })
```

#### Modified Pairs

Modified pairs also have model attributes for keys but they also use any of the supported criteria modifiers to perform queries where a strict equality check wouldn't work.

```javascript
Model.find({
  name : {
    'contains' : 'alt'
  }
})
```

#### In Pairs

IN queries work similarly to mysql 'in queries'. Each element in the array is treated as 'or'.

```javascript
Model.find({
  name : ['Walter', 'Skyler']
});
```

#### Not-In Pairs

Not-In queries work similar to `in` queries, except for the nested object criteria.

```javascript
Model.find({
  name: { '!' : ['Walter', 'Skyler'] }
});
```

#### Or Pairs

Performing `OR` queries is done by using an array of query pairs. Results will be returned that
match any of the criteria objects inside the array.

```javascript
Model.find({
  or : [
    { name: 'walter' },
    { occupation: 'teacher' }
  ]
})
```

### Criteria Modifiers

The following modifiers are available to use when building queries.

* `'<'` / `'lessThan'`
* `'<='` / `'lessThanOrEqual'`
* `'>'` / `'greaterThan'`
* `'>='` / `'greaterThanOrEqual'`
* `'!'` / `'not'`
* `'like'`
* `'contains'`
* `'startsWith'`
* `'endsWith'`


#### '<' / 'lessThan'

Searches for records where the value is less than the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '<': 30 }})
```

#### '<=' / 'lessThanOrEqual'

Searches for records where the value is less or equal to the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '<=': 21 }})
```

#### '>' / 'greaterThan'

Searches for records where the value is more than the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '>': 18 }})
```

#### '>=' / 'greaterThanOrEqual'

Searches for records where the value is more or equal to the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ age: { '>=': 21 }})
```

#### '!' / 'not'

Searches for records where the value is not equal to the value specified.

```javascript
Model.find({ name: { '!': 'foo' }})
```

#### 'like'

Searches for records using pattern matching with the `%` sign. (Case insensitive.)

```javascript
Model.find({ food: { 'like': '%beans' }})
```

#### 'contains'

A shorthand for pattern matching both sides of a string. Will return records where the value
contains the string anywhere inside of it. (Case insensitive.)

```javascript
Model.find({ class: { 'contains': 'history' }})

// The same as

Model.find({ class: { 'like': '%history%' }})
```

#### 'startsWith'

A shorthand for pattern matching the right side of a string. Will return records where the value
starts with the supplied string value. (Case insensitive.)

```javascript
Model.find({ class: { 'startsWith': 'american' }})

// The same as

Model.find({ class: { 'like': 'american%' }})
```

#### 'endsWith'

A shorthand for pattern matching the left side of a string. Will return records where the value
ends with the supplied string value. (Case insensitive.)

```javascript
Model.find({ class: { 'endsWith': 'can' }})

// The same as

Model.find({ class: { 'like': '%can' }})
```

#### 'Date Ranges'

You can do date range queries using the comparison operators.

```javascript
Model.find({ date: { '>': new Date('2/4/2014'), '<': new Date('2/7/2014') } })
```

### Query Options

Query options allow you refine the results that are returned from a query. The current options
available are:

* `limit`
* `skip`
* `sort`

#### Limit

Limits the number of results returned from a query.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, limit: 20 })
```

#### Skip

Returns all the results excluding the number of items to skip.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, skip: 10 });
```

##### Pagination

`skip` and `limit` can be used together to build up a pagination system.

```javascript
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, limit: 10, skip: 10 });
```

`paginate` is a  Waterline helper method which can accomplish the same as `skip` and `limit`.

``` javascript                                                                  
Model.find().paginate({page: 2, limit: 10});                                     
```

> **Waterline**
>
> You can find out more about the Waterline API below:
> * [Sails.js Documentation](http://sailsjs.org/#!/documentation/reference/waterline/queries)
> * [Waterline README](https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline/blob/master/README.md)
> * [Waterline Documentation](https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline-docs)
> * [Waterline Github Repository](https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline)


#### Sort

Results can be sorted by attribute name. Simply specify an attribute name for natural (ascending)
sort, or specify an `asc` or `desc` flag for ascending or descending orders respectively.

```javascript
// Sort by name in ascending order
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: 'name' });

// Sort by name in descending order
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: 'name DESC' });

// Sort by name in ascending order
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: 'name ASC' });

// Sort by binary notation
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: { 'name': 1 }});

// Sort by multiple attributes
Model.find({ where: { name: 'foo' }, sort: { name:  1, age: 0 });
```

> **Case-sensitivity**
>
> All queries inside of Waterline are **case-insensitive**. This allows for easier querying but makes indexing strings tough. This is something to be aware of if you are indexing and searching on string fields.
>
> Currently, the best way to execute **case-sensitive** queries is using the [`.native()`](http://sailsjs.org/#!/documentation/reference/waterline/models/native.html) or [`.query()`](http://sailsjs.org/#!/documentation/reference/waterline/models/query.html) method.


<docmeta name="displayName" value="Query Language">
