concepts/Security/CORS.md, before:

# Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

<!--
Your default Sails setup is already equipped to handle AJAX requests from a web page on the same domain.  But what if you need to handle AJAX requests originating from other domains?  You could set up your browser JSONP That's where [CORS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) comes in.
-->

[CORS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) is a mechanism that allows browser scripts on pages served from other domains (e.g. myothersite.com) to talk to your server (e.g. api.mysite.com).  Like JSONP, the goal of CORS is to function as a secure method to circumvent the [same-origin policy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same-origin_policy); allowing your Sails server to successfully respond to requests from client-side JavaScript code running on a page from some other domain.  But unlike JSONP, it works with more than just GET requests.

Sails can be configured to allow cross-origin requests from a list of domains you specify, or from every domain.  This can be done on a per-route basis, or globally for every route in your app.


### Enabling CORS

For security reasons, CORS is disabled by default in Sails.  But enabling it is dead-simple.

To allow cross-origin requests from _any_ domain to _any_ route in your app, simply enable `allRoutes` in [`config/cors.js`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.cors.html):

```javascript
allRoutes: true
```

See [`sails.config.cors`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.cors.html) for a comprehensive reference of all available options.


### Configuring CORS For Individual Routes
Besides the global CORS configuration, you can set up individual routes in `config/routes.js` to accept (or deny) cross-origin requests.  To indicate that a route should accept CORS requests using the configuration parameters in `config/cors.js`, set its `cors` property to `true`:

```javascript
"get /foo": {
   controller: "FooController",
   action: "index",
   cors: true
}
```

If you have the `allRoutes` parameter set to `true` in `config.cors.js`, but you want to exempt a specific route, you can do so by explicitly setting its `cors` property to `false`:

```javascript
"get /foo": {
   controller: "FooController",
   action: "index",
   cors: false
}
```

To override specific CORS configuration parameters for a route, add a `cors` property object:

```javascript
"get /foo": {
   controller: "FooController",
   action: "index",
   cors: {
     origin: "http://sailsjs.org, http://sailsjs.com",
     credentials: false
   }
}
```

### Security Levels

By default, Sails will still process all the requests that come in regardless of domain, even with CORS enabled: it will simply set the appropriate headers on the response so that the *client* can decide whether or not to show the response.  For example, if you send a `GET` request to `/foo/bar` from a domain that is not in your CORS whitelist, the `bar` action in your `FooController.js` file will still run, but the browser will throw away the result.  This may seem counterintuitive, but it is important because it allows non-browser-based clients (like [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com) and [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/)) to work while still blocking the kind of attacks that the [Same-Origin Policy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same-origin_policy) is meant to protect against.

If you want to completely prevent Sails from processing requests from disallowed domains, you can use the `securityLevel` setting:

```javascript
module.exports.cors = {
  allRoutes: true,
  origin: "http://sailsjs.org",
  securityLevel: 1
}
```

Security level 1 (high) will respond with a 403 status code to any request from a disallowed origin prefixed with the `http` or `https` protocol.  Security level 2 (very high) will do the same, but extended to *all* protocols (so things like Postman and curl won't work).


<docmeta name="displayName" value="CORS">

Commit message:

Add warning about using `allRoutes`:`true` with `credentials: `true`

concepts/Security/CORS.md, after:

# Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)

<!--
Your default Sails setup is already equipped to handle AJAX requests from a web page on the same domain.  But what if you need to handle AJAX requests originating from other domains?  You could set up your browser JSONP That's where [CORS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) comes in.
-->

[CORS](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) is a mechanism that allows browser scripts on pages served from other domains (e.g. myothersite.com) to talk to your server (e.g. api.mysite.com).  Like JSONP, the goal of CORS is to function as a secure method to circumvent the [same-origin policy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same-origin_policy); allowing your Sails server to successfully respond to requests from client-side JavaScript code running on a page from some other domain.  But unlike JSONP, it works with more than just GET requests.

Sails can be configured to allow cross-origin requests from a list of domains you specify, or from every domain.  This can be done on a per-route basis, or globally for every route in your app.


### Enabling CORS

For security reasons, CORS is disabled by default in Sails.  But enabling it is dead-simple.

To allow cross-origin requests from _any_ domain to _any_ route in your app, simply enable `allRoutes` in [`config/cors.js`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.cors.html):

```javascript
allRoutes: true
```

> Note that if this is all you do, your app will not be protected against attacks that exploit CORS.  To prevent third-party sites from being able to trick your logged-in users into making unauthorized requests to your app, you should either set `credentials: false` (for requests that don't require a session) or set `origin` to a specific set of trusted domains.  You can also configure these settings on a per-route basis (see below).

See [`sails.config.cors`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.cors.html) for a comprehensive reference of all available options.


### Configuring CORS For Individual Routes
Besides the global CORS configuration, you can set up individual routes in `config/routes.js` to accept (or deny) cross-origin requests.  To indicate that a route should accept CORS requests using the configuration parameters in `config/cors.js`, set its `cors` property to `true`:

```javascript
"get /foo": {
   controller: "FooController",
   action: "index",
   cors: true
}
```

If you have the `allRoutes` parameter set to `true` in `config.cors.js`, but you want to exempt a specific route, you can do so by explicitly setting its `cors` property to `false`:

```javascript
"get /foo": {
   controller: "FooController",
   action: "index",
   cors: false
}
```

To override specific CORS configuration parameters for a route, add a `cors` property object:

```javascript
"get /foo": {
   controller: "FooController",
   action: "index",
   cors: {
     origin: "http://sailsjs.org, http://sailsjs.com",
     credentials: false
   }
}
```

### Security Levels

By default, Sails will still process all the requests that come in regardless of domain, even with CORS enabled: it will simply set the appropriate headers on the response so that the *client* can decide whether or not to show the response.  For example, if you send a `GET` request to `/foo/bar` from a domain that is not in your CORS whitelist, the `bar` action in your `FooController.js` file will still run, but the browser will throw away the result.  This may seem counterintuitive, but it is important because it allows non-browser-based clients (like [Postman](https://www.getpostman.com) and [curl](http://curl.haxx.se/)) to work while still blocking the kind of attacks that the [Same-Origin Policy](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same-origin_policy) is meant to protect against.

If you want to completely prevent Sails from processing requests from disallowed domains, you can use the `securityLevel` setting:

```javascript
module.exports.cors = {
  allRoutes: true,
  origin: "http://sailsjs.org",
  securityLevel: 1
}
```

Security level 1 (high) will respond with a 403 status code to any request from a disallowed origin prefixed with the `http` or `https` protocol.  Security level 2 (very high) will do the same, but extended to *all* protocols (so things like Postman and curl won't work).


<docmeta name="displayName" value="CORS">
