reference/Request.md, before:

# Request
### Overview

Sails is built on Express. Because of this, you can access all of the express methods and properties on the req() object over http.  Sails has also added a few methods on top of socket.io that allows you to access some of them over websockets.

Below is a chart describing Sails.js support of the .req() methods.

|Name| HTTP ?  | socket.io |
|----|---------|---------|
| req.files | :-) | :-( |
| req.param() | :-) | :-) |
| req.route | :-) | :-) |
| req.cookies | :-) | :-( |
| req.signedCookies | :-) | :-( |
| req.get() | :-) | :-( |
| req.accepts() | :-) | :-( |
| req.accepted | :-) | :-( |
| req.is() | :-) | :-( |
| req.ip | :-) | :-) |
| req.ips | :-) | :-( |
| req.path | :-) | :-( |
| req.host | :-) | :-( |
| req.fresh | :-) | :-( |
| req.stale | :-) | :-( |
| req.xhr | :-) | :-( |
| req.protocol | :-) | :-) |
| req.secure | :-) | :-( |
| req.session | :-) | :-) |
| req.subdomains | :-) | :-( |
| req.method | :-) | :-) |
| req.originalUrl | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptedLanguages | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptedCharsets | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptsCharset() | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptsLanguage() | :-) | :-( |
| req.isSocket | :-) | :-) |
| req.params.all() | :-) | :-) |
| req.socket.id | :-( | :-) |
| req.socket.join | :-( | :-) |
| req.socket.leave | :-( | :-) |
| req.socket.broadcast  | :-( | :-) |
| req.transport  | :-( | :-) |
| req.url | :-) | :-) |
| req.wantsJSON | :-) | :-) |

# req.wantsJSON
### Purpose
This property is used to check whether JSON is in the list of acceptable `Content-Type`s provided by the user-agent in the HTTP request header.

### Example Usage
```javascript
convertToXML = function(someRecord){

    // pretend there is code in here
    // that parses JSON into XML
}

Users.findOne({name:'Walter'}).exec(function foundHim(err,record){
    var myRecord = record;
});

// Check to see if the client can handle JSON.  If not, give them XML.

if (req.wantsJSON)
  res.send(myRecord)
else
  res.send(convertToXML(myRecord));


```


# req.param(`string`)
### Purpose
This method searches the http request body , header, and query string for a parameter with name equal to the supplied parameter.  

### Example Usage
```javascript
var myParam = req.param('blueStuff');

// myParam would contain the value of 'blueStuff' 

```

### Notes
> This is nice.  Sails makes it nicer by making ALL params available through req.params.all().  See this method somewhere below.


# req.files
### Purpose
This is an object containing information about files uploaded through the Express bodyParser.  

### Example Usage
If a file field was named "image" and as a value contained a sucessfully uploaded file, req.files.image would contain the following File object:
```javascript
{ size: 74643,
  path: '/tmp/8ef9c52abe857867fd0a4e9a819d1876',
  name: 'edge.png',
  type: 'image/png',
  hash: false,
  lastModifiedDate: Thu Aug 09 2012 20:07:51 GMT-0700 (PDT),
  _writeStream: 
   { path: '/tmp/8ef9c52abe857867fd0a4e9a819d1876',
     fd: 13,
     writable: false,
     flags: 'w',
     encoding: 'binary',
     mode: 438,
     bytesWritten: 74643,
     busy: false,
     _queue: [],
     _open: [Function],
     drainable: true },
  length: [Getter],
  filename: [Getter],
  mime: [Getter] }
```



# req.route
### Purpose
This is an object containing information about the [route](http://omfgdogs.com) by which request traveled.
### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.route);

/*

{ path: '/user/:id?',
  method: 'get',
  callbacks: [ [Function] ],
  keys: [ { name: 'id', optional: true } ],
  regexp: /^\/user(?:\/([^\/]+?))?\/?$/i,
  params: [ id: '12' ] }
*/

```


# req.cookies

### Purpose
This contains the unsigned cookies sent by the user-agent.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// Assuming the browser sends a cookie named 'Yummy'
console.log(req.cookies.name);

// "Yummy"

```

### Notes
> You should never have to use this method.  While it can be overridden, by default Sails uses the express cookieParser middleware which blanks req.cookies 

# req.signedCookies

### Purpose
This contains the signed cookies sent by the user-agent.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// Assuming the browser sends a SIGNED cookie named 'Yummy'
console.log(req.signedCookies.user);

// "Yummy"

```

### Notes
> You should never have to use this method.  While it can be overridden, by default Sails uses the express cookieParser middleware which blanks req.signedCookies 

# req.get()

### Purpose

Get the value of a field within the http request header with name equal to the supplied parameter.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// assuming a header field named 'myField' with value 'cat'

console.log(req.get('myField'));

// cat

```


# req.accepts(`string`)
### Purpose

Checks if the supplied argument is found in the list of acceptable [Content-Type](http://omfgdogs.com)s specified by the user-agent who sent the request.
### Example Usage
```javascript
// Accept: text/html
req.accepts('html');
//  "html"

// Accept: text/*, application/json
req.accepts('html');
//  "html"
req.accepts('text/html');
//  "text/html"
req.accepts('json, text');
//  "json"
req.accepts('application/json');
//  "application/json"

// Accept: text/*, application/json
req.accepts('image/png');
req.accepts('png');
//  undefined

// Accept: text/*;q=.5, application/json
req.accepts(['html', 'json']);
req.accepts('html, json');
//  "json"
```


# req.accepted
### Purpose
Return an array of Accepted media types ordered from highest quality to lowest.

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.accepted);

/*
  [ { value: 'application/json',
      quality: 1,
      type: 'application',
      subtype: 'json' },
  { value: 'text/html',
       quality: 0.5,
       type: 'text',
       subtype: 'html' } ]
*/
```


# req.is()
### Purpose
Checks if the incoming request contains the "Content-Type" header field, and it matches the given mime type.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// With Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
req.is('html');
req.is('text/html');
req.is('text/*');
//  true

// When Content-Type is application/json
req.is('json');
req.is('application/json');
req.is('application/*');
//  true

req.is('html');
//  false

```



# req.ip
### Purpose
Get the client's IP address.

This property contains the IP address of the client initiating the request.

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.ip);

//  "127.0.0.1"
```


# req.ips
### Purpose
When "trust proxy" is `true`, parse the "X-Forwarded-For" ip address list and return an array, otherwise an empty array is returned. For example if the value were "client, proxy1, proxy2" you would receive the array `["client", "proxy1", "proxy2"]` where "proxy2" is the furthest down-stream.



# req.path
### Purpose
Returns the request URL pathname.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// example.com/users?sort=desc

console.log(req.path);

// '/users'
```


# req.host
### Purpose
Returns the hostname from the "Host" header field (without the port number)

### Example Usage
```javascript
// Host: "example.com:3000"
console.log(req.host);
//  "example.com"

```


# req.fresh
### Purpose
Check if the request is fresh - aka Last-Modified and/or the ETag still match, indicating that the resource is "fresh".

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.fresh)

//  true
```


# req.xhr
### Purpose
Check if the request was issued with the "X-Requested-With" header field set to "XMLHttpRequest" (AJAX)

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.xhr);
//  true

```


# req.protocol
### Purpose
This property contains the transport protocol of the request

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.protocol)
//  "http"
```



# req.secure
### Purpose
Is a [TLS](http://omfgdogs.com) connection established?

### Example Usage
```javascript
'https' == req.protocol;
```



# req.subdomains
### Purpose
This property is an array that contains all of the subdomains found in the URL



# req.method
### Purpose
This property contains the 'method' specified in the http request?

### Notes
> GET,POST,PUT,etc

# req.originalUrl
### Purpose
This property contains the original URL



# req.acceptedLanguages
### Purpose
This property is an array that contains the acceptable languages specified by the user agent in the http request.


### Notes
> This often isnt specified by the user agent

# req.acceptedCharsets
### Purpose
This property is an array that contains the acceptable charsets specified by the user agent in the http request.


### Notes
> This often isnt specified by the user agent

# req.acceptsCharset(`string`)
### Purpose
This method checks to see if the paramater supplied is found in req.acceptedCharsets.

### Notes
> Yo dawg.  I heard you like to iterate.  

# req.acceptsLanguage()
### Purpose
This method checks to see if the paramater supplied is found in req.acceptedLanguages.



# req.isSocket
### Purpose
Returns whether or not the request was delivered via socket.io 

### Example Usage
```javascript
// This would allow you to do different things with the same controller action
// based on whether the request is coming via sockets or http


if (req.isSocket){

  // You're a socket.  Do socket stuff.

} else {

  // Just an http request?  Have some HTML.

  res.view();

}


```



# req.params.all(`string`)
### Purpose
This gathers all parameters found in both http AND sockets requests.  It returns the value of the parameter supplied, assuming it exists.  

### Example Usage
```javascript
if (req.isSocket){

  // Assuming you passed a parameter called 'socketParam' with value 'true' via socket.get()

  console.log(req.params.all('socketParam'));

  // true

} else {

  // Assuming you passed a parameter called 'httpParam' with value 'true' in the query string

  console.log(req.params.all('httpParam'));

  // true

  res.view();

}

// They Both Work !

```


# req.socket.id
### Purpose
This is used to obtain the id of the Socket.IO socket.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// You might use this if you ever had to debug connectivity issues with Socket.IO

console.log(socket.id);

//

```

### Notes
> This is generated by the socket.io server on first connection and kept for the duration of the session.  
> You probably wont use it.

# req.socket.join
### Purpose
This is a low level Socket.IO method.  Check their docs [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/socket.io/wiki/Rooms).

### Notes
> Sails provides its own methods for this and we think they are better.  Learn about them [right here](http://omfgdogs.com).

# req.socket.leave
### Purpose
This is a low level socket.io method.  Check their docs [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/socket.io/wiki/Rooms).



# req.socket.broadcast
### Purpose
This is a low level socket.io method.  Check their docs [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/socket.io/wiki/Rooms).



# req.transport
### Purpose
Check the value of this property to see which [transport mechanism](http://omfgdogs.com) was used by socket.io for the request 



# req.url
### Purpose
This property contains the original URL string requested by the user-agent.

Commit message:

Add some flavor text to the overview of the Request object.

reference/Request.md, after:

# Request
### Overview

Sails is built on [Express](), and uses [Node's HTTP server]() conventions.  Because of this, you can access all of the Node and Express methods and properties on the `req` object whenever it is accessible (i.e. in your controllers, policies, and custom responses.)

A nice side effect of this compatibility is that, in many cases, you can paste existing Node.js code into a Sails app and it will work.  And since Sails implements a transport-agnostic request interpreter, the code in your Sails app is WebSocket-compatible as well.

> Sails adds a few methods and properties of its own to the `req` object, like [`req.wantsJSON`]() and [`req.params.all()`]().  These features are syntactic sugar on top of the underlying implementation, and also support both HTTP and WebSockets.

The chart below summarizes which methods and properties are available for each transport.

|    | HTTP    | socket.io |
|----|---------|---------|
| req.files | :-) | :-( |
| req.param() | :-) | :-) |
| req.route | :-) | :-) |
| req.cookies | :-) | :-( |
| req.signedCookies | :-) | :-( |
| req.get() | :-) | :-( |
| req.accepts() | :-) | :-( |
| req.accepted | :-) | :-( |
| req.is() | :-) | :-( |
| req.ip | :-) | :-) |
| req.ips | :-) | :-( |
| req.path | :-) | :-( |
| req.host | :-) | :-( |
| req.fresh | :-) | :-( |
| req.stale | :-) | :-( |
| req.xhr | :-) | :-( |
| req.protocol | :-) | :-) |
| req.secure | :-) | :-( |
| req.session | :-) | :-) |
| req.subdomains | :-) | :-( |
| req.method | :-) | :-) |
| req.originalUrl | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptedLanguages | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptedCharsets | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptsCharset() | :-) | :-( |
| req.acceptsLanguage() | :-) | :-( |
| req.isSocket | :-) | :-) |
| req.params.all() | :-) | :-) |
| req.socket.id | :-( | :-) |
| req.socket.join | :-( | :-) |
| req.socket.leave | :-( | :-) |
| req.socket.broadcast  | :-( | :-) |
| req.transport  | :-( | :-) |
| req.url | :-) | :-) |
| req.wantsJSON | :-) | :-) |

# req.wantsJSON
### Purpose
This property is used to check whether JSON is in the list of acceptable `Content-Type`s provided by the user-agent in the HTTP request header.

### Example Usage
```javascript
convertToXML = function(someRecord){

    // pretend there is code in here
    // that parses JSON into XML
}

Users.findOne({name:'Walter'}).exec(function foundHim(err,record){
    var myRecord = record;
});

// Check to see if the client can handle JSON.  If not, give them XML.

if (req.wantsJSON)
  res.send(myRecord)
else
  res.send(convertToXML(myRecord));


```


# req.param(`string`)
### Purpose
This method searches the http request body , header, and query string for a parameter with name equal to the supplied parameter.  

### Example Usage
```javascript
var myParam = req.param('blueStuff');

// myParam would contain the value of 'blueStuff' 

```

### Notes
> This is nice.  Sails makes it nicer by making ALL params available through req.params.all().  See this method somewhere below.


# req.files
### Purpose
This is an object containing information about files uploaded through the Express bodyParser.  

### Example Usage
If a file field was named "image" and as a value contained a sucessfully uploaded file, req.files.image would contain the following File object:
```javascript
{ size: 74643,
  path: '/tmp/8ef9c52abe857867fd0a4e9a819d1876',
  name: 'edge.png',
  type: 'image/png',
  hash: false,
  lastModifiedDate: Thu Aug 09 2012 20:07:51 GMT-0700 (PDT),
  _writeStream: 
   { path: '/tmp/8ef9c52abe857867fd0a4e9a819d1876',
     fd: 13,
     writable: false,
     flags: 'w',
     encoding: 'binary',
     mode: 438,
     bytesWritten: 74643,
     busy: false,
     _queue: [],
     _open: [Function],
     drainable: true },
  length: [Getter],
  filename: [Getter],
  mime: [Getter] }
```



# req.route
### Purpose
This is an object containing information about the [route](http://omfgdogs.com) by which request traveled.
### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.route);

/*

{ path: '/user/:id?',
  method: 'get',
  callbacks: [ [Function] ],
  keys: [ { name: 'id', optional: true } ],
  regexp: /^\/user(?:\/([^\/]+?))?\/?$/i,
  params: [ id: '12' ] }
*/

```


# req.cookies

### Purpose
This contains the unsigned cookies sent by the user-agent.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// Assuming the browser sends a cookie named 'Yummy'
console.log(req.cookies.name);

// "Yummy"

```

### Notes
> You should never have to use this method.  While it can be overridden, by default Sails uses the express cookieParser middleware which blanks req.cookies 

# req.signedCookies

### Purpose
This contains the signed cookies sent by the user-agent.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// Assuming the browser sends a SIGNED cookie named 'Yummy'
console.log(req.signedCookies.user);

// "Yummy"

```

### Notes
> You should never have to use this method.  While it can be overridden, by default Sails uses the express cookieParser middleware which blanks req.signedCookies 

# req.get()

### Purpose

Get the value of a field within the http request header with name equal to the supplied parameter.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// assuming a header field named 'myField' with value 'cat'

console.log(req.get('myField'));

// cat

```


# req.accepts(`string`)
### Purpose

Checks if the supplied argument is found in the list of acceptable [Content-Type](http://omfgdogs.com)s specified by the user-agent who sent the request.
### Example Usage
```javascript
// Accept: text/html
req.accepts('html');
//  "html"

// Accept: text/*, application/json
req.accepts('html');
//  "html"
req.accepts('text/html');
//  "text/html"
req.accepts('json, text');
//  "json"
req.accepts('application/json');
//  "application/json"

// Accept: text/*, application/json
req.accepts('image/png');
req.accepts('png');
//  undefined

// Accept: text/*;q=.5, application/json
req.accepts(['html', 'json']);
req.accepts('html, json');
//  "json"
```


# req.accepted
### Purpose
Return an array of Accepted media types ordered from highest quality to lowest.

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.accepted);

/*
  [ { value: 'application/json',
      quality: 1,
      type: 'application',
      subtype: 'json' },
  { value: 'text/html',
       quality: 0.5,
       type: 'text',
       subtype: 'html' } ]
*/
```


# req.is()
### Purpose
Checks if the incoming request contains the "Content-Type" header field, and it matches the given mime type.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// With Content-Type: text/html; charset=utf-8
req.is('html');
req.is('text/html');
req.is('text/*');
//  true

// When Content-Type is application/json
req.is('json');
req.is('application/json');
req.is('application/*');
//  true

req.is('html');
//  false

```



# req.ip
### Purpose
Get the client's IP address.

This property contains the IP address of the client initiating the request.

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.ip);

//  "127.0.0.1"
```


# req.ips
### Purpose
When "trust proxy" is `true`, parse the "X-Forwarded-For" ip address list and return an array, otherwise an empty array is returned. For example if the value were "client, proxy1, proxy2" you would receive the array `["client", "proxy1", "proxy2"]` where "proxy2" is the furthest down-stream.



# req.path
### Purpose
Returns the request URL pathname.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// example.com/users?sort=desc

console.log(req.path);

// '/users'
```


# req.host
### Purpose
Returns the hostname from the "Host" header field (without the port number)

### Example Usage
```javascript
// Host: "example.com:3000"
console.log(req.host);
//  "example.com"

```


# req.fresh
### Purpose
Check if the request is fresh - aka Last-Modified and/or the ETag still match, indicating that the resource is "fresh".

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.fresh)

//  true
```


# req.xhr
### Purpose
Check if the request was issued with the "X-Requested-With" header field set to "XMLHttpRequest" (AJAX)

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.xhr);
//  true

```


# req.protocol
### Purpose
This property contains the transport protocol of the request

### Example Usage
```javascript
console.log(req.protocol)
//  "http"
```



# req.secure
### Purpose
Is a [TLS](http://omfgdogs.com) connection established?

### Example Usage
```javascript
'https' == req.protocol;
```



# req.subdomains
### Purpose
This property is an array that contains all of the subdomains found in the URL



# req.method
### Purpose
This property contains the 'method' specified in the http request?

### Notes
> GET,POST,PUT,etc

# req.originalUrl
### Purpose
This property contains the original URL



# req.acceptedLanguages
### Purpose
This property is an array that contains the acceptable languages specified by the user agent in the http request.


### Notes
> This often isnt specified by the user agent

# req.acceptedCharsets
### Purpose
This property is an array that contains the acceptable charsets specified by the user agent in the http request.


### Notes
> This often isnt specified by the user agent

# req.acceptsCharset(`string`)
### Purpose
This method checks to see if the paramater supplied is found in req.acceptedCharsets.

### Notes
> Yo dawg.  I heard you like to iterate.  

# req.acceptsLanguage()
### Purpose
This method checks to see if the paramater supplied is found in req.acceptedLanguages.



# req.isSocket
### Purpose
Returns whether or not the request was delivered via socket.io 

### Example Usage
```javascript
// This would allow you to do different things with the same controller action
// based on whether the request is coming via sockets or http


if (req.isSocket){

  // You're a socket.  Do socket stuff.

} else {

  // Just an http request?  Have some HTML.

  res.view();

}


```



# req.params.all(`string`)
### Purpose
This gathers all parameters found in both http AND sockets requests.  It returns the value of the parameter supplied, assuming it exists.  

### Example Usage
```javascript
if (req.isSocket){

  // Assuming you passed a parameter called 'socketParam' with value 'true' via socket.get()

  console.log(req.params.all('socketParam'));

  // true

} else {

  // Assuming you passed a parameter called 'httpParam' with value 'true' in the query string

  console.log(req.params.all('httpParam'));

  // true

  res.view();

}

// They Both Work !

```


# req.socket.id
### Purpose
This is used to obtain the id of the Socket.IO socket.

### Example Usage
```javascript
// You might use this if you ever had to debug connectivity issues with Socket.IO

console.log(socket.id);

//

```

### Notes
> This is generated by the socket.io server on first connection and kept for the duration of the session.  
> You probably wont use it.

# req.socket.join
### Purpose
This is a low level Socket.IO method.  Check their docs [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/socket.io/wiki/Rooms).

### Notes
> Sails provides its own methods for this and we think they are better.  Learn about them [right here](http://omfgdogs.com).

# req.socket.leave
### Purpose
This is a low level socket.io method.  Check their docs [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/socket.io/wiki/Rooms).



# req.socket.broadcast
### Purpose
This is a low level socket.io method.  Check their docs [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/socket.io/wiki/Rooms).



# req.transport
### Purpose
Check the value of this property to see which [transport mechanism](http://omfgdogs.com) was used by socket.io for the request 



# req.url
### Purpose
This property contains the original URL string requested by the user-agent.
