# Model Methods
### Overview

#### Model Class Methods

Model class methods are functions built into the model itself that perform a particular task on its instances (records).  This is where you will find the familiar CRUD methods for performing database operations like `.create()`, `.update()`, `.destroy()`, `.find()`, etc.

#### Dynamic Finders

These are special class methods that are dynamically generated by Sails when you lift your app.  We call them dynamic finders.  They perform many of the same functions as the other class methods but you can call them directly on an attribute in your model.  This was taken from Java conventions to help anyone who is coming over from the Java world.

#### Pub Sub Methods

This is another special type of class method.  It stands for 'Publish, Subscribe' and that's just what they do. These methods play a big role in how Sails integrates and utilizes Socket.IO.  They are used to subscribe clients to and publish messages about the creation, update, and destruction of models.  If you want to build real-time functionality in Sails, these will come in handy.

#### Instance Methods

Instance methods are functions built into model instances (records).

They perform tasks on their parent record. Imagine you have a small monkey named Timothy that rides on your shoulders and styles your hair ONLY when you are scheduled to speak at a conference.  In this scenario, you are an instance of the model 'Javascript Expert', Timothy is your personal instance method and the function he performs is making sure your hair looks good for conferences.

In addition to useful ones like `.save()`, `.destroy()`, and `.validate()` , you can also define your own custom ones inside of your model.

If you would like to write your own instance methods, you will declare them inside of your model.  For more information, see the [guide on models](./#!documentation/guides/models)


### Notes

> For most class methods, the callback parameter is optional and if one is not supplied, it will return a chainable object.


<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="ModelMethods537291">
<docmeta name="methodType" value="undefined">
<docmeta name="importance" value="undefined">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Models">

