concepts/Deployment/Deployment.md, before:

# Deployment

### Overview

#### Before You Deploy

Before you launch any web application, you should ask yourself a few questions:

+ What is your expected traffic?
+ Are you contractually required to meet any uptime guarantees, e.g. a Service Level Agreement (SLA)?
+ What sorts of front-end apps will be "hitting" your infrastructure?
  + Android apps
  + iOS apps
  + desktop web browers
  + mobile web browsers (tablets, phones, iPad minis?)
  + tvs, watches, toasters..?
+ And what kinds of things will they be requesting?
  + JSON?
  + HTML?
  + XML?
+ Will you be taking advantage of realtime pubsub features with Socket.io?
  + e.g. chat, realtime analytics, in-app notifications/messages
+ How are you tracking crashes and errors?
  + Take a look at Sails' log config



#### Deploying On a Single Server

Node.js is pretty dern fast.  For many apps, one server is enough to handle the expected traffic-- at least at first.

##### Configure

+ Configure your app to run on port 80 (if not behind a proxy like nginx)
+ Configure the 'production' environment so that all of your css/js gets bundled up, and the internal servers are switched into the appropriate environment (requires [linker](https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-wiki/blob/0.9/assets.md))
+ Enable CSRF protection for your POST, PUT, and DELETE requests
+ Enable SSL
+ IF YOU'RE USING SOCKETS: 
  + Configure `config/sockets.js` to use socket.io's recommended production settings [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/Socket.IO/wiki/Configuring-Socket.IO#recommended-production-settings)
    + e.g. enable the `flashsocket` transport

##### Deploy

In production, instead of `sails lift`, you'll want to use forever to make sure your app will keep running, even if it crashes.

+ Install forever: `sudo npm install -g forever`
  + More about forever: https://github.com/nodejitsu/forever
+ From your app directory, start the server with forever: `forever start app.js --prod`
  + This is the same thing as using `sails lift --prod`, but if the server crashes, it will be automatically restarted.
 


<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="Deployment402941">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Deployment">

Commit message:

Added deployment description to set up your db
As mentioned in https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-mysql/issues/129

concepts/Deployment/Deployment.md, after:

# Deployment

### Overview

#### Before You Deploy

Before you launch any web application, you should ask yourself a few questions:

+ What is your expected traffic?
+ Are you contractually required to meet any uptime guarantees, e.g. a Service Level Agreement (SLA)?
+ What sorts of front-end apps will be "hitting" your infrastructure?
  + Android apps
  + iOS apps
  + desktop web browers
  + mobile web browsers (tablets, phones, iPad minis?)
  + tvs, watches, toasters..?
+ And what kinds of things will they be requesting?
  + JSON?
  + HTML?
  + XML?
+ Will you be taking advantage of realtime pubsub features with Socket.io?
  + e.g. chat, realtime analytics, in-app notifications/messages
+ How are you tracking crashes and errors?
  + Take a look at Sails' log config



#### Deploying On a Single Server

Node.js is pretty dern fast.  For many apps, one server is enough to handle the expected traffic-- at least at first.

##### Configure

+ Configure your app to run on port 80 (if not behind a proxy like nginx)
+ Configure the 'production' environment so that all of your css/js gets bundled up, and the internal servers are switched into the appropriate environment (requires [linker](https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-wiki/blob/0.9/assets.md))
+ Make sure your database is set-up on the production server. This is especially important if you are using a relational database such as MySQL, because sails sets all your models to `migrate:safe` when run in production, which means no auto-migrations are run on starting up the app. You can set your database up the following way:
  + Create the database on the server and then run your sails app with `migrate:alter` locally, but configured to use the production server as your db. This will automatically set things up. 
  +  In case you can't connect to the server remotely, you'll simply dump your local schema and import it into the database server.
+ Enable CSRF protection for your POST, PUT, and DELETE requests
+ Enable SSL
+ IF YOU'RE USING SOCKETS: 
  + Configure `config/sockets.js` to use socket.io's recommended production settings [here](https://github.com/LearnBoost/Socket.IO/wiki/Configuring-Socket.IO#recommended-production-settings)
    + e.g. enable the `flashsocket` transport

##### Deploy

In production, instead of `sails lift`, you'll want to use forever to make sure your app will keep running, even if it crashes.

+ Install forever: `sudo npm install -g forever`
  + More about forever: https://github.com/nodejitsu/forever
+ From your app directory, start the server with forever: `forever start app.js --prod`
  + This is the same thing as using `sails lift --prod`, but if the server crashes, it will be automatically restarted.
 


<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="Deployment402941">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Deployment">
