concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.md, before:

# Custom Routes
### Overview

Sails allows you to explicitly route URLs in several different ways in your **config/routes.js** file.  Every route configuration consists of an **address** and a **target**, for example:

```
'GET /foo/bar': 'FooController.bar'
^^^address^^^^  ^^^^^^target^^^^^^^
```

### Route Address

The route address indicates what URL should be matched in order to apply the handler and options defined by the target.  A route consists of an optional verb and a mandatory path:

```
'POST  /foo/bar'
^verb^ ^^path^^
```

If no verb is specified, the target will be applied to any request that matches the path, regardless of the HTTP method used (**GET**, **POST**, **PUT** etc.).  Note the initial `/` in the path--all paths should start with one in order to work properly.

####Wildcards and dynamic parameters

In addition to specifying a static path like **foo/bar**, you can use `*` as a wildcard:

```
'/*'
```
    
will match all paths, where as:

```
'/user/foo/*'
```
    
will match all paths that *start* with **/user/foo**.

You can capture the parts of the address that are matched by wildcards into named parameters by using the `:paramName` wildcard syntax instead of the `*`:

```
'/user/foo/:name/bar/:age'
```

Will match the same URLs as:

```
'/user/foo/*/bar/*'
```
    
but will provide the values of the wildcard portions of the route to the route handler as `req.param('name')` and `req.param('age')`, respectively.

#### Regular expressions in addresses

In addition to the wildcard address syntax, you may also use Regular Expressions to define the URLs that a route should match.  The syntax for defining an address with a regular expression is:

`"r|<regular expression string>|<comma-delimited list of param names>"`

That's the letter "**r**", followed by a pipe character `|`, a regular expression string *without delimiters*, another pipe, and a list of parameter names that should be mapped to parenthesized groups in the regular expression.  For example:

`"r|^/\\d+/(\\w+)/(\\w+)$|foo,bar": "MessageController.myaction"`

Will match `/123/abc/def`, running the `myaction` action of `MessageController` and supplying the values `abc` and `def` as `req.param('foo')` and `req.param('bar')`, respectively.

Note the double-backslash in `\\d` and `\\w`; this escaping is necessary for the regular expression to work correctly!

#### About route ordering

When using wildcards or regular expressions in your addresses, keep in mind that the ordering of your routes in **config/routes.js** matters; URLs are matched against addresses in the list from the top down.  If you have two configurations in this order:

    '/user': 'UserController.doSomething',
    '/*'   : 'CatchallController.doSomethingElse'
    
then a request to `/user` will not be matched by the second configuration unless the first configuration's handler calls `next()` in its code, which is discouraged (only [policies](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Policies) should call `next()`).  Unless you're doing something very advanced, it is safe to assume that every request will be handled by at most one route in your **config/routes.js** file.

### Route Target

The address portion of a custom route specifies which URLs the route should match.  The *target* portion specifies what Sails should do after the match is made.  A target can take one of several different forms.  In some cases you may want to chain multiple targets to a single address by placing them in an array, but in most cases each address will have only one target.  The different types of targets are discussed below, followed by a discussion of the various options that can be applied to them.

#### Controller / action target syntax

The most common type of target is one which binds a route to a custom [controller action](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Controllers?q=actions).  The following four routes are equivalent:

```
'GET /foo/go': 'FooController.myGoAction',
'GET /foo/go': 'Foo.myGoAction',
'GET /foo/go': {controller: "Foo", action: "myGoAction"},
'GET /foo/go': {controller: "FooController", action:"myGoAction"},

```

Each one maps `GET /foo/go` to the `myGoAction` action of the controller in **api/controllers/FooController.js**.  If no such controller or action exists, Sails will output an error message and ignore the route.  Otherwise, whenever a **GET** request to **/foo/go** is made, the code in that action will be run.

The controller and action names in this syntax are case-insensitive.

Note that the [blueprints API](/#/documentation/reference/blueprint-api) adds several actions to your controllers by default (like "find", "create", "update" and "delete"), all of which are available for routing:

```
'GET /foo/go': 'UserController.find'
```

Assuming that your have a **api/controllers/UserController.js** file and a **api/models/User.js** file, browsing to **/foo/go** in a browser will, using the above config, run the default "find* blueprint action which displays a list of all `User` models.  If you have a [custom action](/#/documentation/concepts/Controllers?q=actions) named `find` in UserController, that action will be run instead.


#### View target syntax

Another common target is one that binds a route to a [view](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Views).  The syntax for this is simple: it's the path to the view file relative to the **views** folder, without the file extension:

```
'GET /home': {view: 'home/index'}
```

This maps the `GET /home` to the view stored in **views/home/index.ejs** (assuming the default EJS [template engine](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Views/ViewEngines.html) is used).  As long as that view file exists, a **GET** request to  **/home** will display it.

> Note that this route will be bound directly to the view, no policies will be applied in this case.
> See the StackOverflow [question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21303217/sailsjs-policy-based-route-with-a-view/21340313#21340313) for more information.

#### Blueprint target syntax

In some cases you may want to map a non-standard address to one of the Sails [blueprint actions](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/blueprint-api?q=blueprint-actions).  For example, if you have a controller and model named **UserController** and **User** respectively, then Sails will automatically map **GET /user** to the "find" blueprint action which returns a list of User records.  If you'd like to map a different address to that action, you can use the blueprint target syntax:

```
'GET /findAllUsers': {model: 'user', blueprint: 'find'},
'GET /user/findAll': {blueprint: 'find'}
```

Note that in the configuration, both the `model` and `blueprint` properties are set, while in the second one, only `blueprint` is used.  In the second configuration, leaving off the `model` property causes Sails to examine the address and guess that the model is `User`.  You could override this by explicitly setting `model` to something else:

```
'GET /user/findAll': {blueprint: 'find', model: 'pet'}
```

although you will rarely if ever want to do this, as it makes for a messy and confusing API for your app.

If you specify a non-existent model or blueprint in your configuration, Sails will output an error and ignore the route.

You can also use this syntax to map a route to one of the default blueprint actions even if you've overridden that action in a controller.

#### Redirect target syntax
You can have one address redirect to another--either within your Sails app, or on another server entirely--you can do so just by specifying the redirect URL as a string:

```
'/alias' : '/some/other/route'
'GET /google': 'http://www.google.com'
```

Be careful to avoid infinitely loops when redirecting within your Sails app!

Note that when redirecting, the HTTP method of the original request (and any extra headers / parameters) will likely be lost, and the request will be transformed to a simple **GET** request.  In the above example, a **POST** request to **/alias** will result in a **GET** request to **/some/other/route**.  This is somewhat browser-dependent behavior, but it is recommended that you don't expect request methods and other data to survive a redirect.  

#### Response target syntax
You can map an address directly to a default or custom [response](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Custom-Responses) using this syntax:

```
'/foo': {response: 'notFound'}
```

Simply specify the name of the response file in your **api/responses** folder, without the **.js** extension.  The response name in this syntax is case-sensitive.  If you attempt to bind a route to a non-existent response, Sails will output an error and ignore the route.

#### Policy target syntax

In most cases, you will want to apply [policies](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Policies) to your controller actions using the [**config/policies.js**](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.policies.html) config file.  However, there are some times when you will want to apply a policy directly to a custom route: particularly when you are using the [view](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=view-target-syntax) or [blueprint]((http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax) target syntax.  The policy target syntax is:

```
'/foo': {policy: 'myPolicy'}
```
However, you will always want to chain the policy to at least one other type of target, using an array:

```
'/foo': [{policy: 'myPolicy'}, {blueprint: 'find', model: 'user'}]
```

This will apply the **myPolicy** policy to the route and, if it passes, continue by running the **find** blueprint for the **User** model.

### Route target options

In addition to the options discussed in the various route target syntaxes above, any other property you add to a route target object will be passed through to the route handler in the `req.options` object.  There are several reserved properties that can be used to affect the behavior of the route handlers.  These are listed in the table below.

| Property    | Applicable Target Types       | Data Type | Details |
|-------------|:----------:|-----------|-----------|
|`skipAssets`|all|((boolean))|Set to `true` if you *don't* want the route to match URLs with dots in them (e.g. **myImage.jpg**).  This will keep your routes with [wildcard notation](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=wildcards-and-dynamic-parameters) from matching URLs of static assets.  Useful when creating [URL slugs](/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/URLSlugs.html).|
|`skipRegex`|all|((boolean))|If skipping every URL containing a dot is too permissive, or you need a route's handler to be skipped based on different criteria entirely, you can use `skipRegex`.  This option allows you to specify a regular expression or array of regular expressions to match the request URL against; if any of the matches are successful, the handler is skipped.  Note that unlike the syntax for binding a handler with a regular expression, `skipRegex` expects *actual [RegExp objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp)*, not strings.|
|`locals`|[controller](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=controller-%2F-action-target-syntax), [view](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=view-target-syntax), [blueprint](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax), [response](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=response-target-syntax)|((object))|Sets default [local variables](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/res/res.view.html?q=arguments) to pass to any view that is rendered while handling the request.|
|`cors`|all|((object)) or ((boolean)) or ((string))|Specifies how to handle requests for this route from a different origin.  See the [main CORS documentation](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/CORS) for more info.|
|`populate`|[blueprint](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax)|((boolean))|Indicates whether the results in a "find" or "findOne" blueprint action should have associated model fields [populated](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/waterline/populated-values).  Defaults to the value set in [**config/blueprints.js**](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.blueprints.html).
|`skip`, `limit`, `sort`, `where`|[blueprint](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax)|((object))|Set criteria for "find" blueprint.  See the [queries reference](https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-docs/blob/master/reference/waterline/queries/queries.md) for more info.

<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="RouteTargetSyntax278177">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Custom Routes">

Commit message:

Add extra note to RouteTargetSyntax.md about wildcards
Prompted by balderdashy/sails#2841

concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.md, after:

# Custom Routes
### Overview

Sails allows you to explicitly route URLs in several different ways in your **config/routes.js** file.  Every route configuration consists of an **address** and a **target**, for example:

```
'GET /foo/bar': 'FooController.bar'
^^^address^^^^  ^^^^^^target^^^^^^^
```

### Route Address

The route address indicates what URL should be matched in order to apply the handler and options defined by the target.  A route consists of an optional verb and a mandatory path:

```
'POST  /foo/bar'
^verb^ ^^path^^
```

If no verb is specified, the target will be applied to any request that matches the path, regardless of the HTTP method used (**GET**, **POST**, **PUT** etc.).  Note the initial `/` in the path--all paths should start with one in order to work properly.

####Wildcards and dynamic parameters

In addition to specifying a static path like **foo/bar**, you can use `*` as a wildcard:

```
'/*'
```
    
will match all paths, where as:

```
'/user/foo/*'
```
    
will match all paths that *start* with **/user/foo**.

> **Note:** When using a route with a wildcard, such as `'/*'`, be aware that this will also match requests to static assets (i.e. `/js/dependencies/sails.io.js`) and override them. To prevent this, consider using the `skipAssets` option [described below](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=route-target-options).

You can capture the parts of the address that are matched by wildcards into named parameters by using the `:paramName` wildcard syntax instead of the `*`:

```
'/user/foo/:name/bar/:age'
```

Will match the same URLs as:

```
'/user/foo/*/bar/*'
```
    
but will provide the values of the wildcard portions of the route to the route handler as `req.param('name')` and `req.param('age')`, respectively.

#### Regular expressions in addresses

In addition to the wildcard address syntax, you may also use Regular Expressions to define the URLs that a route should match.  The syntax for defining an address with a regular expression is:

`"r|<regular expression string>|<comma-delimited list of param names>"`

That's the letter "**r**", followed by a pipe character `|`, a regular expression string *without delimiters*, another pipe, and a list of parameter names that should be mapped to parenthesized groups in the regular expression.  For example:

`"r|^/\\d+/(\\w+)/(\\w+)$|foo,bar": "MessageController.myaction"`

Will match `/123/abc/def`, running the `myaction` action of `MessageController` and supplying the values `abc` and `def` as `req.param('foo')` and `req.param('bar')`, respectively.

Note the double-backslash in `\\d` and `\\w`; this escaping is necessary for the regular expression to work correctly!

#### About route ordering

When using wildcards or regular expressions in your addresses, keep in mind that the ordering of your routes in **config/routes.js** matters; URLs are matched against addresses in the list from the top down.  If you have two configurations in this order:

    '/user': 'UserController.doSomething',
    '/*'   : 'CatchallController.doSomethingElse'
    
then a request to `/user` will not be matched by the second configuration unless the first configuration's handler calls `next()` in its code, which is discouraged (only [policies](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Policies) should call `next()`).  Unless you're doing something very advanced, it is safe to assume that every request will be handled by at most one route in your **config/routes.js** file.

### Route Target

The address portion of a custom route specifies which URLs the route should match.  The *target* portion specifies what Sails should do after the match is made.  A target can take one of several different forms.  In some cases you may want to chain multiple targets to a single address by placing them in an array, but in most cases each address will have only one target.  The different types of targets are discussed below, followed by a discussion of the various options that can be applied to them.

#### Controller / action target syntax

The most common type of target is one which binds a route to a custom [controller action](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Controllers?q=actions).  The following four routes are equivalent:

```
'GET /foo/go': 'FooController.myGoAction',
'GET /foo/go': 'Foo.myGoAction',
'GET /foo/go': {controller: "Foo", action: "myGoAction"},
'GET /foo/go': {controller: "FooController", action:"myGoAction"},

```

Each one maps `GET /foo/go` to the `myGoAction` action of the controller in **api/controllers/FooController.js**.  If no such controller or action exists, Sails will output an error message and ignore the route.  Otherwise, whenever a **GET** request to **/foo/go** is made, the code in that action will be run.

The controller and action names in this syntax are case-insensitive.

Note that the [blueprints API](/#/documentation/reference/blueprint-api) adds several actions to your controllers by default (like "find", "create", "update" and "delete"), all of which are available for routing:

```
'GET /foo/go': 'UserController.find'
```

Assuming that your have a **api/controllers/UserController.js** file and a **api/models/User.js** file, browsing to **/foo/go** in a browser will, using the above config, run the default "find* blueprint action which displays a list of all `User` models.  If you have a [custom action](/#/documentation/concepts/Controllers?q=actions) named `find` in UserController, that action will be run instead.


#### View target syntax

Another common target is one that binds a route to a [view](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Views).  The syntax for this is simple: it's the path to the view file relative to the **views** folder, without the file extension:

```
'GET /home': {view: 'home/index'}
```

This maps the `GET /home` to the view stored in **views/home/index.ejs** (assuming the default EJS [template engine](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Views/ViewEngines.html) is used).  As long as that view file exists, a **GET** request to  **/home** will display it.

> Note that this route will be bound directly to the view, no policies will be applied in this case.
> See the StackOverflow [question](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/21303217/sailsjs-policy-based-route-with-a-view/21340313#21340313) for more information.

#### Blueprint target syntax

In some cases you may want to map a non-standard address to one of the Sails [blueprint actions](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/blueprint-api?q=blueprint-actions).  For example, if you have a controller and model named **UserController** and **User** respectively, then Sails will automatically map **GET /user** to the "find" blueprint action which returns a list of User records.  If you'd like to map a different address to that action, you can use the blueprint target syntax:

```
'GET /findAllUsers': {model: 'user', blueprint: 'find'},
'GET /user/findAll': {blueprint: 'find'}
```

Note that in the configuration, both the `model` and `blueprint` properties are set, while in the second one, only `blueprint` is used.  In the second configuration, leaving off the `model` property causes Sails to examine the address and guess that the model is `User`.  You could override this by explicitly setting `model` to something else:

```
'GET /user/findAll': {blueprint: 'find', model: 'pet'}
```

although you will rarely if ever want to do this, as it makes for a messy and confusing API for your app.

If you specify a non-existent model or blueprint in your configuration, Sails will output an error and ignore the route.

You can also use this syntax to map a route to one of the default blueprint actions even if you've overridden that action in a controller.

#### Redirect target syntax
You can have one address redirect to another--either within your Sails app, or on another server entirely--you can do so just by specifying the redirect URL as a string:

```
'/alias' : '/some/other/route'
'GET /google': 'http://www.google.com'
```

Be careful to avoid infinitely loops when redirecting within your Sails app!

Note that when redirecting, the HTTP method of the original request (and any extra headers / parameters) will likely be lost, and the request will be transformed to a simple **GET** request.  In the above example, a **POST** request to **/alias** will result in a **GET** request to **/some/other/route**.  This is somewhat browser-dependent behavior, but it is recommended that you don't expect request methods and other data to survive a redirect.  

#### Response target syntax
You can map an address directly to a default or custom [response](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Custom-Responses) using this syntax:

```
'/foo': {response: 'notFound'}
```

Simply specify the name of the response file in your **api/responses** folder, without the **.js** extension.  The response name in this syntax is case-sensitive.  If you attempt to bind a route to a non-existent response, Sails will output an error and ignore the route.

#### Policy target syntax

In most cases, you will want to apply [policies](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Policies) to your controller actions using the [**config/policies.js**](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.policies.html) config file.  However, there are some times when you will want to apply a policy directly to a custom route: particularly when you are using the [view](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=view-target-syntax) or [blueprint]((http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax) target syntax.  The policy target syntax is:

```
'/foo': {policy: 'myPolicy'}
```
However, you will always want to chain the policy to at least one other type of target, using an array:

```
'/foo': [{policy: 'myPolicy'}, {blueprint: 'find', model: 'user'}]
```

This will apply the **myPolicy** policy to the route and, if it passes, continue by running the **find** blueprint for the **User** model.

### Route target options

In addition to the options discussed in the various route target syntaxes above, any other property you add to a route target object will be passed through to the route handler in the `req.options` object.  There are several reserved properties that can be used to affect the behavior of the route handlers.  These are listed in the table below.

| Property    | Applicable Target Types       | Data Type | Details |
|-------------|:----------:|-----------|-----------|
|`skipAssets`|all|((boolean))|Set to `true` if you *don't* want the route to match URLs with dots in them (e.g. **myImage.jpg**).  This will keep your routes with [wildcard notation](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=wildcards-and-dynamic-parameters) from matching URLs of static assets.  Useful when creating [URL slugs](/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/URLSlugs.html).|
|`skipRegex`|all|((boolean))|If skipping every URL containing a dot is too permissive, or you need a route's handler to be skipped based on different criteria entirely, you can use `skipRegex`.  This option allows you to specify a regular expression or array of regular expressions to match the request URL against; if any of the matches are successful, the handler is skipped.  Note that unlike the syntax for binding a handler with a regular expression, `skipRegex` expects *actual [RegExp objects](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/RegExp)*, not strings.|
|`locals`|[controller](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=controller-%2F-action-target-syntax), [view](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=view-target-syntax), [blueprint](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax), [response](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=response-target-syntax)|((object))|Sets default [local variables](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/res/res.view.html?q=arguments) to pass to any view that is rendered while handling the request.|
|`cors`|all|((object)) or ((boolean)) or ((string))|Specifies how to handle requests for this route from a different origin.  See the [main CORS documentation](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/CORS) for more info.|
|`populate`|[blueprint](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax)|((boolean))|Indicates whether the results in a "find" or "findOne" blueprint action should have associated model fields [populated](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/waterline/populated-values).  Defaults to the value set in [**config/blueprints.js**](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.blueprints.html).
|`skip`, `limit`, `sort`, `where`|[blueprint](http://beta.sailsjs.org/#/documentation/concepts/Routes/RouteTargetSyntax.html?q=blueprint-target-syntax)|((object))|Set criteria for "find" blueprint.  See the [queries reference](https://github.com/balderdashy/sails-docs/blob/master/reference/waterline/queries/queries.md) for more info.

<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="RouteTargetSyntax278177">
<docmeta name="displayName" value="Custom Routes">
