concepts/Middleware/Middleware.md, before:

# Middleware

Sails is fully compatible with Express / Connect middleware - in fact, it's all over the place!  Much of the code you'll write in Sails is effectively middleware; most notably [controller actions](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/Controllers?q=actions) and [policies](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/Policies).


### HTTP Middleware

Sails also utilizes an additional [configurable middleware stack](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/Middleware#adding-or-overriding-http-middleware) just for handling HTTP requests.  Each time your app receives an HTTP request, the configured HTTP middleware stack runs in order.

> Note that this HTTP middleware stack is only used for "true" HTTP requests-- it is ignored for **virtual requests** (e.g. requests from a live Socket.io connection.)



#### Adding or Overriding HTTP Middleware

To configure a custom HTTP middleware function, define a new HTTP key `sails.config.http.middleware.foobar` and set it to the configured middleware function, then add the string name ("foobar") to your `sails.config.http.middleware.order` array wherever you'd like it to run in the middleware chain (a good place to put it might be right before "cookieParser"):

E.g. in `config/http.js`:

```js
  // ...
  middleware: {

    // Define a custom HTTP middleware fn with the key `foobar`:
    foobar: function (req,res,next) { /*...*/ next(); },

    // Define another couple of custom HTTP middleware fns with keys `passportInit` and `passportSession`
    // (notice that this time we're using an existing middleware library from npm)
    passportInit    : require('passport').initialize(),
    passportSession : require('passport').session(),

    // Override the conventional cookie parser:
    cookieParser: function (req, res, next) { /*...*/ next(); },


    // Now configure the order/arrangement of our HTTP middleware
    order: [
      'startRequestTimer',
      'cookieParser',
      'session',
      'passportInit',            // <==== passport HTTP middleware should run after "session"
      'passportSession',         // <==== (see https://github.com/jaredhanson/passport#middleware)
      'bodyParser',
      'compress',
      'foobar',                  // <==== we can put this stuff wherever we want
      'methodOverride',
      'poweredBy',
      '$custom',
      'router',
      'www',
      'favicon',
      '404',
      '500'
    ]
  },

  customMiddleware: function(app){
     //Intended for other middleware that doesn't follow 'app.use(middleware)' convention
     require('other-middleware').initialize(app);
  }
  // ...
```


### Express Middleware In Sails

One of the really nice things about Sails apps is that they can take advantage of the wealth of already-existing Express/Connect middleware out there.  But a common question that arises when people _actually_ try to do this is:

> _"Where do I `app.use()` this thing?"_.

In most cases, the answer is to install the Express middleware as a custom HTTP middleware in [`sails.config.http.middleware`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.http.html).  This will trigger it for ALL HTTP requests to your Sails app, and allow you to configure the order in which it runs in relation to other HTTP middleware.

### Express Routing Middleware In Sails

You can also include Express middleware as a policy- just configure it in [`config/policies.js`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.policies.html).  You can either require and setup the middleware in an actual wrapper policy (usually a good idea) or just require it directly in your policies.js file.  The following example uses the latter strategy for brevity:

```js
var auth = require('http-auth');
var basic = auth.basic({
        realm: "admin area"
    }, function (username, password, onwards) {
        onwards(username === "Tina" && password === "Bullock");
    }
});

//...
module.exports.policies = {
  '*': true,

  ProductController: {

    // Prevent end users from doing CRUD operations on products reserved for admins
    // (uses HTTP basic auth)
    '*': auth.connect(basic),

    // Everyone can view product pages
    show: true
  }
}
```



<!--

  TODO:

### Advanced Express Middleware In Sails

You can actually do this in a few different ways, depending on your needs.



Generally, the following best-practices apply:

If you want a middleware function

+ If you want a piece of middleware to run only when your app's explicit or blueprint routes are matched, you should include it as a policy.
+ this will run passport for all incoming http requests, including images, css, etc.

If you want a middleware function to run for all you should include it at the top of your `config/routes.js` as a wildcard route.  for your controller (both HTTP and virtual) requests
-->






<docmeta name="displayName" value="Middleware">

Commit message:

add note about how you really shouldn't override `router`

concepts/Middleware/Middleware.md, after:

# Middleware

Sails is fully compatible with Express / Connect middleware - in fact, it's all over the place!  Much of the code you'll write in Sails is effectively middleware; most notably [controller actions](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/Controllers?q=actions) and [policies](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/Policies).


### HTTP Middleware

Sails also utilizes an additional [configurable middleware stack](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/concepts/Middleware#adding-or-overriding-http-middleware) just for handling HTTP requests.  Each time your app receives an HTTP request, the configured HTTP middleware stack runs in order.

> Note that this HTTP middleware stack is only used for "true" HTTP requests-- it is ignored for **virtual requests** (e.g. requests from a live Socket.io connection.)



#### Adding or Overriding HTTP Middleware

To configure a custom HTTP middleware function, define a new HTTP key `sails.config.http.middleware.foobar` and set it to the configured middleware function, then add the string name ("foobar") to your `sails.config.http.middleware.order` array wherever you'd like it to run in the middleware chain (a good place to put it might be right before "cookieParser"):

E.g. in `config/http.js`:

```js
  // ...
  middleware: {

    // Define a custom HTTP middleware fn with the key `foobar`:
    foobar: function (req,res,next) { /*...*/ next(); },

    // Define another couple of custom HTTP middleware fns with keys `passportInit` and `passportSession`
    // (notice that this time we're using an existing middleware library from npm)
    passportInit    : require('passport').initialize(),
    passportSession : require('passport').session(),

    // Override the conventional cookie parser:
    cookieParser: function (req, res, next) { /*...*/ next(); },


    // Now configure the order/arrangement of our HTTP middleware
    order: [
      'startRequestTimer',
      'cookieParser',
      'session',
      'passportInit',            // <==== passport HTTP middleware should run after "session"
      'passportSession',         // <==== (see https://github.com/jaredhanson/passport#middleware)
      'bodyParser',
      'compress',
      'foobar',                  // <==== we can put this stuff wherever we want
      'methodOverride',
      'poweredBy',
      '$custom',
      'router',
      'www',
      'favicon',
      '404',
      '500'
    ]
  },

  customMiddleware: function(app){
     //Intended for other middleware that doesn't follow 'app.use(middleware)' convention
     require('other-middleware').initialize(app);
  }
  // ...
```


### Express Middleware In Sails

One of the really nice things about Sails apps is that they can take advantage of the wealth of already-existing Express/Connect middleware out there.  But a common question that arises when people _actually_ try to do this is:

> _"Where do I `app.use()` this thing?"_.

In most cases, the answer is to install the Express middleware as a custom HTTP middleware in [`sails.config.http.middleware`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.http.html).  This will trigger it for ALL HTTP requests to your Sails app, and allow you to configure the order in which it runs in relation to other HTTP middleware.

> You should never override or remove the `router` HTTP middleware.  It is built-in to Sails, and without it, your app's explicit routes and blueprint routes will not work.

### Express Routing Middleware In Sails

You can also include Express middleware as a policy- just configure it in [`config/policies.js`](http://sailsjs.org/documentation/reference/sails.config/sails.config.policies.html).  You can either require and setup the middleware in an actual wrapper policy (usually a good idea) or just require it directly in your policies.js file.  The following example uses the latter strategy for brevity:

```js
var auth = require('http-auth');
var basic = auth.basic({
        realm: "admin area"
    }, function (username, password, onwards) {
        onwards(username === "Tina" && password === "Bullock");
    }
});

//...
module.exports.policies = {
  '*': true,

  ProductController: {

    // Prevent end users from doing CRUD operations on products reserved for admins
    // (uses HTTP basic auth)
    '*': auth.connect(basic),

    // Everyone can view product pages
    show: true
  }
}
```



<!--

  TODO:

### Advanced Express Middleware In Sails

You can actually do this in a few different ways, depending on your needs.



Generally, the following best-practices apply:

If you want a middleware function

+ If you want a piece of middleware to run only when your app's explicit or blueprint routes are matched, you should include it as a policy.
+ this will run passport for all incoming http requests, including images, css, etc.

If you want a middleware function to run for all you should include it at the top of your `config/routes.js` as a wildcard route.  for your controller (both HTTP and virtual) requests
-->






<docmeta name="displayName" value="Middleware">
