reference/waterline/queries/populate.md, before:

# .populate( `foreignKey`, [`query`] )
### Purpose
This chainable method is used between .find()/.update() and .exec() in order to retrieve records associated with the model being queried.  You must supply the Foreign Key specified in your model config.  

### Overview
#### Parameters

|   |     Description     | Accepted Data Types | Required ? |
|---|---------------------|---------------------|------------|
| 1 |     Foreign Key     |      `string`       |     Yes    |
| 2 |     Query           |      `object`       |     No     |

### Example Usage

```javascript 

User.find({name:'Mike'}).exec(function(e,r){
  console.log(r[0].toJSON())
})

/* 
{ name: 'Mike',
  age: 16,
  createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  id: 7 }
*/

User.find({name:'Mike'}).populate('pets').exec(function(e,r){
  console.log(r[0].toJSON())
});

/*
{ pets: 
   [ { name: 'Pinkie Pie',
       color: 'pink',
       id: 7,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) },
     { name: 'Rainbow Dash',
       color: 'blue',
       id: 8,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) },
     { name: 'Applejack',
       color: 'orange',
       id: 9,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) } ],
  name: 'Mike',
  age: 16,
  createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  id: 7 }
*/

User.find({name:'Mike'}).populate('pets',{color:'pink'}).exec(function(e,r){
  console.log(r[0].toJSON())
});

/*
{ pets: 
   [ { name: 'Pinkie Pie',
       color: 'pink',
       id: 7,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) }],
  name: 'Mike',
  age: 16,
  createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  id: 7 }
*/

```

### Notes
> Any string arguments passed must be the primary key of the record.


<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="populate245634">
<docmeta name="methodType" value="association">
<docmeta name="importance" value="undefined">
<docmeta name="displayName" value=".populate()">

Commit message:

Make usage of the query parameter more explicit
This solves the confusion around issues like this one:
https://github.com/balderdashy/waterline/issues/1238

reference/waterline/queries/populate.md, after:

# .populate( `foreignKey`, [`query`] )
### Purpose
This chainable method is used between .find()/.update() and .exec() in order to retrieve records associated with the model being queried.  You must supply the Foreign Key specified in your model config.  

If a collection attribute is defined in a many-to-many, one-to-many or many-to-many-through association the populate option also accepts a full criteria object. This allows you to filter associations and run limit and skip on the results.

Note that this means the query parameter does not work for one-to-one associations.

### Overview
#### Parameters

|   |     Description     | Accepted Data Types | Required ? |
|---|---------------------|---------------------|------------|
| 1 |     Foreign Key     |      `string`       |     Yes    |
| 2 |     Query           |      `object`       |     No     |

### Example Usage

```javascript 

User.find({name:'Mike'}).exec(function(e,r){
  console.log(r[0].toJSON())
})

/* 
{ name: 'Mike',
  age: 16,
  createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  id: 7 }
*/

User.find({name:'Mike'}).populate('pets').exec(function(e,r){
  console.log(r[0].toJSON())
});

/*
{ pets: 
   [ { name: 'Pinkie Pie',
       color: 'pink',
       id: 7,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) },
     { name: 'Rainbow Dash',
       color: 'blue',
       id: 8,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) },
     { name: 'Applejack',
       color: 'orange',
       id: 9,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) } ],
  name: 'Mike',
  age: 16,
  createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  id: 7 }
*/

User.find({name:'Mike'}).populate('pets',{color:'pink'}).exec(function(e,r){
  console.log(r[0].toJSON())
});

/*
{ pets: 
   [ { name: 'Pinkie Pie',
       color: 'pink',
       id: 7,
       createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
       updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST) }],
  name: 'Mike',
  age: 16,
  createdAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  updatedAt: Wed Feb 12 2014 18:06:50 GMT-0600 (CST),
  id: 7 }
*/

```

### Notes
> Any string arguments passed must be the primary key of the record.


<docmeta name="uniqueID" value="populate245634">
<docmeta name="methodType" value="association">
<docmeta name="importance" value="undefined">
<docmeta name="displayName" value=".populate()">
