anatomy/myApp/tasks/README.md.md, before:

# myApp/README.md
### Purpose
If you want to create a [README file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/README) for your app, this is a good place to put it.  If you host your app on Github, the contents of this file will be displayed at the bottom of the Github repo page.



<docmeta name="displayName" value="README">

```
# About the `tasks` folder

The `tasks` directory is a suite of Grunt tasks and their configurations, bundled for your convenience.  The Grunt integration is mainly useful for bundling front-end assets, (like stylesheets, scripts, & markup templates) but it can also be used to run all kinds of development tasks, from browserify compilation to database migrations.

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, read on!


### How does this work?

The asset pipeline bundled in Sails is a set of Grunt tasks configured with conventional defaults designed to make your project more consistent and productive.

The entire front-end asset workflow in Sails is completely customizable-- while it provides some suggestions out of the box, Sails makes no pretense that it can anticipate all of the needs you'll encounter building the browser-based/front-end portion of your application.  Who's to say you're even building an app for a browser?



### What tasks does Sails run automatically?

Sails runs some of these tasks (the ones in the `tasks/register` folder) automatically when you run certain commands.

###### `sails lift`

Runs the `default` task (`tasks/register/default.js`).

###### `sails lift --prod`

Runs the `prod` task (`tasks/register/prod.js`).

###### `sails www`

Runs the `build` task (`tasks/register/build.js`).

###### `sails www --prod` (production)

Runs the `buildProd` task (`tasks/register/buildProd.js`).


### Can I customize this for SASS, Angular, client-side Jade templates, etc?

You can modify, omit, or replace any of these Grunt tasks to fit your requirements. You can also add your own Grunt tasks- just add a `someTask.js` file in the `grunt/config` directory to configure the new task, then register it with the appropriate parent task(s) (see files in `grunt/register/*.js`).


### Do I have to use Grunt?

Nope! To disable Grunt integration in Sails, just delete your Gruntfile or disable the Grunt hook.


### What if I'm not building a web frontend?

That's ok! A core tenet of Sails is client-agnosticism-- it's especially designed for building APIs used by all sorts of clients; native Android/iOS/Cordova, serverside SDKs, etc.

You can completely disable Grunt by following the instructions above.

If you still want to use Grunt for other purposes, but don't want any of the default web front-end stuff, just delete your project's `assets` folder and remove the front-end oriented tasks from the `grunt/register` and `grunt/config` folders.  You can also run `sails new myCoolApi --no-frontend` to omit the `assets` folder and front-end-oriented Grunt tasks for future projects.  You can also replace your `sails-generate-frontend` module with alternative community generators, or create your own.  This allows `sails new` to create the boilerplate for native iOS apps, Android apps, Cordova apps, SteroidsJS apps, etc.


```

Commit message:

adding docs for sails lift staging mode

anatomy/myApp/tasks/README.md.md, after:

# myApp/README.md
### Purpose
If you want to create a [README file](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/README) for your app, this is a good place to put it.  If you host your app on Github, the contents of this file will be displayed at the bottom of the Github repo page.



<docmeta name="displayName" value="README">

```
# About the `tasks` folder

The `tasks` directory is a suite of Grunt tasks and their configurations, bundled for your convenience.  The Grunt integration is mainly useful for bundling front-end assets, (like stylesheets, scripts, & markup templates) but it can also be used to run all kinds of development tasks, from browserify compilation to database migrations.

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, read on!


### How does this work?

The asset pipeline bundled in Sails is a set of Grunt tasks configured with conventional defaults designed to make your project more consistent and productive.

The entire front-end asset workflow in Sails is completely customizable-- while it provides some suggestions out of the box, Sails makes no pretense that it can anticipate all of the needs you'll encounter building the browser-based/front-end portion of your application.  Who's to say you're even building an app for a browser?



### What tasks does Sails run automatically?

Sails runs some of these tasks (the ones in the `tasks/register` folder) automatically when you run certain commands.

###### `sails lift`

Runs the `default` task (`tasks/register/default.js`).

###### `sails lift --staging`

Runs the `staging` task (`tasks/register/staging.js`).

###### `sails lift --prod`

Runs the `prod` task (`tasks/register/prod.js`).

###### `sails www`

Runs the `build` task (`tasks/register/build.js`).

###### `sails www --staging` (staging)

Runs the `buildStaging` task (`tasks/register/buildStaging.js`).

###### `sails www --prod` (production)

Runs the `buildProd` task (`tasks/register/buildProd.js`).

NOTE: You can also run these tasks with NODE_ENV set.

- NODE_ENV=staging sails lift (runs the app in staging mode)
- NODE_ENV=production sails lift --staging (runs the app in staging mode with NODE_ENV set to production)
  - You may want to do this to access the production features of the sails pipleine while still using the your config/env/staging.js configuration.

### Can I customize this for SASS, Angular, client-side Jade templates, etc?

You can modify, omit, or replace any of these Grunt tasks to fit your requirements. You can also add your own Grunt tasks- just add a `someTask.js` file in the `grunt/config` directory to configure the new task, then register it with the appropriate parent task(s) (see files in `grunt/register/*.js`).


### Do I have to use Grunt?

Nope! To disable Grunt integration in Sails, just delete your Gruntfile or disable the Grunt hook.


### What if I'm not building a web frontend?

That's ok! A core tenet of Sails is client-agnosticism-- it's especially designed for building APIs used by all sorts of clients; native Android/iOS/Cordova, serverside SDKs, etc.

You can completely disable Grunt by following the instructions above.

If you still want to use Grunt for other purposes, but don't want any of the default web front-end stuff, just delete your project's `assets` folder and remove the front-end oriented tasks from the `grunt/register` and `grunt/config` folders.  You can also run `sails new myCoolApi --no-frontend` to omit the `assets` folder and front-end-oriented Grunt tasks for future projects.  You can also replace your `sails-generate-frontend` module with alternative community generators, or create your own.  This allows `sails new` to create the boilerplate for native iOS apps, Android apps, Cordova apps, SteroidsJS apps, etc.


```
